ACCRA, Ghana, November 27 – Banyana Banyana coach Desiree Ellis and goalkeeper Kaylin Swart regard Tuesday’s Women’s African Cup semifinal against Mali in Cape Coast in Ghana as a virtual final with victory assuring them of a place in next year’s Fifa World Cup in France. Said Ellis: The semifinals against Mali is final for us because of what we can achieve if we win. Of course, we are not underestimating them. “Mali kicked out hosts Ghana out of this tournament and that tells you a lot about the quality of this tournament. “We have to analyse Mali really well and the most important thing is that we stick to our plan. We have to perform the same way we did against Nigeria to realise our goal  –  to qualify for the World Cup.” Ellis said every player would have to be on top of the game from the start to the finish of the match. “It is going to take the type of performance we have produced so far and make sure we don’t underrate the Malians. In fact, we can still improve our play.” Goalkeeper Swart said Banyana had worked really hard to come this far in this tournament. “Everyday we go to training we get better. We are going to take any game lightly and of course, the semifinal against Mali is another hurdle. “Our preparations have been really good and the coaches have been working with us at the highest level. They have given us a plan to allow us to play to the best of our ability. “In the previous three games we went into them with the aim of winning and we are approaching the semifinal with the same mentality. “All we have in our in minds is to win. We know what we came here for and that is what we are going for,” added Swart. Mali coach Mohamed Saloum Houssein says that though statistics favour South Africa, they will try and disprove this when the two countries meet. “We know what it means to be in the semifinals of the tournament. Statistics will definitely say South Africa are better than Mali but football is played within 90 minutes. “Until it is over you can’t declare a winner. We have done our best even though playing against Ghana wasn’t easy but once more I thank God for guiding us to this stage. “We have been preparing very well for the game against South Africa. We are keeping our composure and seriousness in place for the game. “Every coach aims to go far as possible with the team they have. Some didn’t believe this but I have worked and toiled so far with my team to get this far. “Hard work really pays and we are hopeful. It has never been easy but each team has their strengths and weaknesses and we are hoping to take advantage of South Africa’s errors. Mali striker Fatoumata Diarra said: “It is true that we have made history by making it to the semifinals for the first time but I must say it has not been easy. “South Africa have scored a lot of goals in this tournament but every game has its own dynamics. The reality of this game will be determined on the field and we will find that out on Tuesday.” (ANA)