JOHANNESBURG, November 7 – Banyana Banyana coach Desiree Ellis on Wednesday announced a squad of 21 players to represent South Africa at the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) tournament in Ghana from November 17 to December 1.
The premier African women’s football showpiece will be used as a 2019 Women’s World Cup qualifier – the top three nations in Ghana will represent the continent at the World Cup in France in June.
Ellis has called up two uncapped players – Amanda Mthandin and Tiisetso Makhubela.
“It was a difficult task to pin down the final 21 players, as they all raised their hands to show how much they want to be part of this magnificent team,” said Ellis.
“But I am confident that the players we have chosen will do the business for South Africa. Too many times we have been close to winning the tournament and I think with the preparations we have had, we feel ready for the competition.”
The former Banyana captain has also selected four players to be on stand-by – Kholosa Biyana, Rachel Sebati, Thato Letsoso and Hilda Magaia.
The quartet will travel with the squad to Ghana and return to South Africa after the international friendly match that will be played in Accra on Sunday.
Banyana have been drawn in Group B against defending champions Nigeria, Kenya and Zambia.
South Africa will open their account with a clash against the Super Falcons on November 18, followed by an encounter against Kenya three days later. Both matches will be played at Cape Coast.
For the final match, Ellis and her charges will travel to the capital Accra to face Zambia on November 24.
South Africa will be making their 12th appearance at the tournament.
The squad has been in camp since October 21, and will travel to Ghana on Friday.
Banyana squad: Andile Dlamini, Kaylin Swart, Roxanne Barker, Lebogang Ramalepe, Nothando Vilakazi, Janine van Wyk, Noko Matlou, Bambanani Mbane, Tiisetso Makhubela, Koketso Tlailane, Kgaelebane Mohlakoana, Mamello Makhabane, Leandra Smeda, Nompumelelo Nyandeni, Linda Motlhalo, Busisiwe Ndimeni, Refiloe Jane, Jermaine Seoposenwe, Thembi Kgatlana, Melinda Kgadiete, Amanda Mthandi.
Standby players: Hildah Magaia, Kholosa Biyana, Rachel Sebati, Thato Letsoso. (ANA)