THOHOYANDOU, November 20 – Englishman Dylan Kerr, who won back-to-back Premier League titles with Kenyan giants Gor Mahia, has been officially confirmed as the new head coach of struggling South African Premier Soccer League outfit Black Leopards. Leopards parted ways with coach Joel Masutha on November 12, with Kerr resigning from Gor Mahia three days later. “With a very sad heart, l have decided to accept another coaching role for the 2018/19 season,” Kerr said in a statement upon his departure. Lidoda Duvha spokesperson Berry Ramunenyiwa subsequently confirmed Kerr’s arrival on Tuesday morning: “Black Leopards welcomed Dylan Kerr as head coach [on Monday] night. He will be introduced to players this morning. He brings a lot of experience which will uplift Black Leopards.” Kerr had a very successful stay in Kenya; in a 16-month spell he led the team to two league titles and won 51 of 79 matches in charge, losing just 12. However, he’s in for a very different challenge at Leopards as the Limpopo-based club find themselves just one point above the relegation zone with a third of the season played, in what is their first campaign back in the top flight after six years in the second tier, the National First Division. The Thohoyandou–based team has picked up just one point from their last four Premiership outings and are next up against league leaders Bidvest Wits, on December 1. They also play Maritzburg United and AmaZulu, the two teams directly below them on the table, before the end of the year. It has been reported, but not confirmed, that Kerr would be looking to bring a couple of Gor Mahia players, including defender Philemon Otieno and midfielder Francis Kahata, with him to South Africa. As a player, Kerr enjoyed a journeyman career, playing for around 15 clubs in the lower leagues in England. As a coach, he has worked in the United States, the UK, Vietnam and with Tanzania giants Simba FC. He also had a brief stint between 2009 and 2010 as an assistant coach at Mpumalanga Black Aces, where he worked with Sammy Troughton. (ANA)