JOHANNESBURG, November 27- In an about turn at the state capture commission of inquiry, former government spokesman Mzwanele ”Jimmy” Manyi on Tuesday abandoned his application for evidence leader Advocate Vincent Maleka to recuse himself after he accused the silk of bias. Legal team leader Paul Pretorius announced after an adjournment that Manyi will no longer seek the recusal. ”I think the point has been made chairperson, I do not want to frustrate the work of the commission”, Manyi said. Earlier, Manyi said he wrote a letter to the inquiry about a possible conflict of interest regarding Maleka because the silk previously litigated against the fugitive Gupta family. He accused Maleka of being prosecutorial and not inquisitorial, and that he is being treated as an accused. Manyi suggested that Maleka’s line of questioning was biased. “I am treated as a hostile witness…I am treated like a criminal. This kind of treatment will surely deter other witnesses from appearing before the commission,” he said. Maleka said his work was governed by the strict rules in law practice and that of the commission, and that Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo is there to ensure that the rules are upheld. Manyi, who became the owner of the now-defunct The New Age newspaper and ANN7 news channel – both previously owned by the Guptas, is giving testimony on his role while at the helm at GCIS between 2011 and 2012. The former government spokesman took over at GCIS from Themba Maseko in 2011. Maseko was fired, allegedly for not doing the Guptas bidding. Maseko testified at the commission that he was under pressure from the Guptas to channel R600 million in government advertising spend to the family’s newspaper. He was then fired and replaced by Manyi. In 2017, Manyi’s Lodidolox acquired ANN7 for R300 million and The New Age for R150 million from the Guptas through vendor financing. The companies were liquidated this year following a decline in heavily relied on government advertising and non-payment of staff. (ANA)