JOHANNESBURG, November 14 –  South Africa’s Institute of Race Relations (IRR) has condemned a tweet by Democratic Alliance mayor of Johannesburg Herman Mashaba that he had taken action against an informal meat trader as “contemptible and xenophobic”. Mashaba, whose party is the main opposition on a national scale, but has run Johannesburg in an alliance with other parties after unseating the ruling African National Congress in 2016, posted on his Twitter account earlier this week that he had performed a citizen’s arrest on a man lugging a trolley of cow heads. He urged Johannesburg metro police to act “before we experience a breakdown of unknown diseases in our (city)”. The tweet sparked criticism that Mashaba, a self-made businessman, was now bent on repressing fellow blacks struggling to make ends meet in a country with an unemployment rate of more than 27 percent. Mashaba should be rebuked by his party’s leadership over his actions, IRR head of politics and governance Gareth van Onselen said. “Mashaba … at first, and rightly, described the situation as a serious health risk,” van Onselen said. “But then, in response to the suggestion that the trader be helped to comply rather than punished, he wrote: ‘We are going to sit back and allow people like you to bring us Ebolas in the name of small business. Health of our people first. Our health facilities are already stretched to the limit.'” “This is language of intolerance and prejudice, and, in an environment which is already a tinderbox of visceral contempt for illegal immigrants, is deeply problematic,” said van Onselen. An outbreak of Ebola has killed more than 200 people in the Democratic Republic of Congo. “The idea that illegal immigrants or informal traders, often regarded as one and the same, are the harbinger of Ebola is despicable,” van Onselen said. “And the idea that ‘our people’ come first, particularly when it comes to healthcare, is a negation of the humanist spirit that is supposed to underpin any liberal democracy.” In the face of the social media backlash over his comments, Mashaba has since tweeted that he fully supported informal traders in the city “as much as I support the health of residents”. “Our Health Inspectors will be working with street vendors in the inner city to support them to meet our environmental health codes while working to earn a living,” he wrote. Mashaba has previously been criticised over his vocal stance against mostly African illegal immigrants in the city, although supporters have applauded him. “The DA needs to get its messaging on illegal immigrants under control and fast,” the IRR’s van Onselen said. “It is fiddling with a fire that will burn its own face off.” The left-leaning Economic Freedom Fighters, which is in a governing alliance with Mashaba’s DA in Johannesburg, on Tuesday condemned the mayor for what it called his “alien attitudes towards small entrepreneurs doing business in the city”. “The EFF in Johannesburg is disappointed with the mayor’s alien attitudes towards small entrepreneurs doing business in the City and strongly condemns the continued arrest of informal traders,” EFF Joburg regional chairperson, Musa Novela, said. Earlier on Monday, the Mashaba posted a tweet where he claimed to have performed his first citizen arrest on the informal trader. “In the caption the mayor questions the trader’s transitioning mode and cast aspersions on the trader as a potential carrier of deadly diseases. In his follow up tweets he quite astonishingly and in a very absurd logic connects this trade to an Ebola outbreak in West Africa,” said Novela. “EFF would like to condemn the mayor’s uninformed and strange views on the causal link between African trade and disease mutation. We furthermore suspect that this medically illiterate posture is not of his making, but forced on him by a throng of white minders masquerading as Chiefs of Staff around him.” The EFF said: “It is inconceivable for a former informal trader who has on numerous occasions shared stories of being raised in harsh conditions by a domestic worker could grow to hold such racist views which purport black people as uncivilised scavengers and carriers of deadly diseases”. “Secondly, as EFF in our Elections Manifesto we called for the formalisation of informal trading through the creation of serviced informal trading zones and sites. At a Macro level we called for the establishment of Guangzhou modelled Free Trading Zones across the City. The zones should include the CBD Banking & Finance City, Randburg Contact Centre Zone, Langlaagte Manufacturing Zone and relevant to this subject Kwa Mai Mai Cultural Hub.” The EFF urged the City of Johannesburg to invest in infrastructure and incentives for these zones. “We call on him [Mashaba] to reflect and start seeing opportunities in informal trading, which the vibrant and biggest economy of Nigeria is solely built on, rather than an apocalyptic catalyst. Related to this, the EFF will soon be meeting with all informal traders in Joburg to engage with them on our manifesto proposals and jointly work on a strategy to deal with the Metro’s harassment,” said Novela. Mayor Mashaba must withdraw his grandstanding remarks and apologise to informal traders.” (ANA)