JOHANNESBURG, November 24 – South African state pension fund, Public Investment Corporation (PIC) chief executive officer Daniel Matjila resigned on Friday, with immediate effect. “The PIC Board deliberated on the letter from the CEO, Dr Daniel Matjila expressing his intention to resign. The Board resolved that in the interest of the PIC and the CEO, we accept his resignation with immediate effect,” the Board said in a statement released by PIC. “The Board wishes to state that Dr Matjila has over the years in various capacities, served the PIC with dignity and distinction. He has played an integral role in fulfilling the PIC’s vision of meeting and exceeding our clients’ mandates. Under his leadership, the PIC has grown from strength to strength and has attracted dedicated and competent employees of world class calibre.” The Board wished Matjila well in all his future endeavours and said it had no doubt that he could still contribute to the country. On October 17, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that he had set up a Commission of Inquiry into allegations of impropriety regarding the PIC and gave it six months to complete the investigation. The PIC, the biggest asset manager in Africa and manages almost R2 trillion in government pension and other funds, has been mired in controversy with allegations of impropriety against its directors regarding some of its investment decisions. Former president of the Supreme Court of Appeal, Justice Lex Mpati, was discharged from active service to be inquiry’s commissioner and would be assisted by former Reserve Bank governor Gill Marcus, and veteran asset manager, Emmanuel Lediga. Among the 16 Terms of Reference the Commission must probe, is whether any alleged impropriety regarding investment decisions by the PIC in media reports in 2017 and 2018 contravened any legislation. The Commission must also probe whether PIC policy or contractual obligations resulted in any undue benefit for any PIC director, or employee or any associate or family member of any PIC director or employee at the time. Ramaphosa also wants the Commission to probe whether investment decisions at PIC resulted from ineffective governance and/or functioning by the board, or whether any PIC director or employee used his or her position or privileges, or confidential information for personal gain or to improperly benefit another person. Ramaphosa said that the Commission must, in its enquiry for the purpose of its findings, report and recommendations, consider the period of January 1, 2015 to August 31, 2018. The Commission was also given leeway to investigate and make findings and recommendations on, any other matter regarding the PIC, regardless of when it is alleged to have occurred on the applicable dates between 2015 and 2017. Ramaphosa gave the Commission short and strict deadlines, saying that it must submit an interim report to him by not later than February 15, 2019, and a final report by not later than April 15, 2019. On September 16, the PIC Board expressed it’s confidence in the ability and integrity of Matjila, management and staff of the PIC. “The Board wishes to state that it will continue to exercise its fiduciary duties without fear or favour, including accountability to all stakeholders. The Board also noted media allegations prior to the meeting about its intention to remove the CEO. The Board wishes to reiterate that it rejects these allegations with the contempt they deserve,” the Board said at the time. (ANA)