CAPE TOWN, November 11 – South Africa’s Springboks snatched a dramatic 29-26 win over France with a post-hooter converted try at the Stade de France, Paris, on Saturday, after trailing 16-9 at the halftime break.
For most of the way, the Springboks looked like they were headed for a second successive tour defeat but they showed great composure and resolve at the end to close out a winning result.
The match ended with the teams sharing a two-all try count although the Springboks had a try disallowed at the end after the scoring pass was adjudged forward.
After France weathered a series of Springbok attacks in the opening minutes they came good once they transferred play to opposition half where scrumhalf Baptiste Serin was on target with two penalties in quick succession for a 6-0 lead after 11 minutes.
Handré Pollard, the Springbok flyhalf, was as prolific when two kickable penalties came his way and after 20 minutes of first-half play, the teams were level pegging at 6-all.
Springbok hooker Malcolm Marx won a breakdown penalty in the 27th minute and Pollard was on target with the angled kick, taken close to the touchline. For the first time in the match, the Springboks were in the lead (9-6).
France were back on even terms when their flyhalf Camille Lopez snapped over a drop goal six minutes ahead of the halftime break (9-9).
There was more joy for France moments later when the Springbok blindside defence at a scrum was caught napping and hooker Guilhem Guirado barged over for a converted try to give his side a 16-9 halftime lead.
The Springboks were off to the worst possible start when they conceded a try, two minutes after the restart.
Their sloppy efforts on defence which was marked by 18 missed tackles in the first half came back to haunt them when they failed to deal with a bouncing ball in front their posts and French centre Mathieu Bastareaud wormed his way over for a converted try after shaking off several would-be tacklers (23-9).
The Springboks struck back almost immediately with a converted try by rightwing Sibusiso Nkosi after France made a hash of trying to deal with Pollard’s restart kick-off (23-16).
Seven minutes later, the Springboks closed the gap with another Pollard penalty for a 23-19 scoreline.
On the hour mark, France were guilty of a high tackle and Pollard made no mistake from the kicking tee and the deficit was reduced to a mere point (23-22).
A late tackle in a charge-down attempt by Springbok scrumhalf Faf de Klerk resulted in a penalty for France four minutes later and Serin made no mistake to stretch the lead to four points (26-22).
The Springboks suffered a setback after excellent work by substitute Cheslin Kolbe who lost the ball as he crossed the tryline, under pressure from France’s cover defence, 10 minutes from the end.
The Springboks produced a strong finish in a desperate bid to save the match and it looked like they would come up short after Dyantyi scored but the pass ahead of the tryline was adjudged forward in the final minute of the match.
After the hooter had sounded, the Springboks produced a matchwinning driving maul from a 5m lineout and substitute Mbongeni Mbonambi rounded off with a converted try (29-26).
Scorers: France 26 (16): Tries: Guilhem Guirado, Mathieu Bastareaud. Conversions: Baptiste Serin (2). Penalties: Serin (3). Drop goal: Camille Lopez
South Africa 29 (9): Tries: Sibusiso Nkosi, Mbongeni Mbonambi. Conversions: Handré Pollard (2). Penalties: Pollard (5). (ANA)