JOHANNESBURG- Celebrities offer their thanks, remembrances and condolences in the death of Marvel legend Stan Lee, who died Monday at age 95. “Original and genius are two very overused words in the world today, but Stan was both. Add irrepressible and irreplaceable, and you begin to describe the man. We have all lost a true superhero. We will greatly miss our friendly neighbourhood Stan Lee.” — Sony Pictures’ Motion Picture Group chairman Tom Rothman, in a statement.  “I owe it all to you… Rest In Peace Stan… #MCU #Excelsior #legend #rip #stanlee #TeamStark” — “Iron Man” actor Robert Downey Jr., via Instagram.  “There will never be another Stan Lee. For decades he provided both young and old with adventure, escape, comfort, confidence, inspiration, strength, friendship and joy. He exuded love and kindness and will leave an indelible mark on so, so, so many lives. Excelsior!!” — “Captain America” actor Chris Evans, via Twitter.  “RIP Stan. Thanks for everything.” — “Deadpool” actor Ryan Reynolds, via Twitter.  “Thank you Stan Lee for making people who feel different realize they are special.” — Seth Rogan, via Twitter.  “I was first interviewed for Stan Lee’s obituary about 20 years ago. I was happy he defied the reaper and carried on. With Stan gone, an era really does come to an end. He was the happy huckster that comics needed. And he really did alliterate like that when you talked to him.” — Neil Gaiman, via Twitter.  “No one has had more of an impact on my career and everything we do at Marvel Studios than Stan Lee. Stan leaves an extraordinary legacy that will outlive us all. Our thoughts are with his daughter, his family, and his millions of fans.” — Marvel Studios boss Kevin Feige, via Twitter.  “Thank you Stan Lee. For your service in protecting our freedom and for your creativity and imagination! You were and will always be a SUPER HERO!” — Jamie Lee Curtis, via Twitter.  “To Stan Lee: Thank you for making my childhood so much more exciting with your astonishing superhero characters. Thank you for inspiring me to think and dream big. Thank you for the Hulk, Thor, Fantastic Four and many others. You will be sadly missed. RIP.” — Gene Simmons, via Twitter.  “You gave us characters that continue to stand the test of time and evolve with our consciousness. You taught us that there are no limits to our future as long as we have access to our imagination. Rest in power! #EXCELSIOR #StanLee #rip.” — “Black Panther” actor Winston Duke, via Twitter.  “His contribution to Pop Culture was revolutionary & cannot be overstated. He was everything you hoped he would be & MORE. I loved this man & will never stop missing him. They say you should never meet a childhood idol. They are wrong. #RIPStanTheMan.” — Marvel animated universe alum and “Star Wars” star Mark Hamill, via Twitter.  “He lives forever through his work. What a giant. With great power comes immortality.” — Lin-Manuel Miranda, via Twitter.