JOHANNESBURG, November 13 – Telephone company Telkom said on Tuesday its headline earnings per share were down 3.3 percent to 288 cents in the six months to September. Chief executive Sipho Maseko however said the company had delivered a satisfactory performance with operating revenue and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization growth of 5.2 percent and 2.9 percent respectively. This was despite a challenging operating environment, where the country slipped into a technical recession while consumers remained under pressure from increases in value added tax, fuel prices and a weaker currency. Telkom said its mobile business was a growth driver with an impressive service revenue growth of 53.8 percent to R3.6 billion, supported by strong customer growth of 50 percent to 6.5 million. Openserve and Gyro also contributed positively to the group, with the former marginally increasing its revenue despite the decline in traditional revenue, while the latter continued to grow external revenue and the mast and tower portfolio tenancy ratio. “Notwithstanding the satisfactory performance, we felt the negative impact of the weak economic environment on our enterprise business as BCX, which serves all sectors of the economy, continues to be under pressure due to the tough economic environment,” Maseko said. “In addition to the weak economy, BCX’s performance continues to be impacted by the decline in voice revenue.” While fixed voice revenue declined by 12.4 percent and fixed data revenue was flat due to the accelerated decline in traditional products, Telkom said new revenue streams were compensating for the decline in traditional revenue streams albeit at a lower margin. “Looking forward, we believe that our operating environment will continue to be challenging with macro-economic conditions not being favourable to growth, and the private and public sectors respectively deferring spend on ICT,” the company said. “Our strategy therefore will be more focussed on pockets of growth, while we continue extracting efficiencies from past investments and driving a sustainable cost management approach.” (ANA)