PARLIAMENT, November 6 – The ruling ANC’s top leadership on Tuesday vowed to fight factionalism within the party, conceding fears that divisions could harm its showing in national elections next year. ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu told a media briefing after an ANC caucus meeting in the legislature, MPs had asked the leadership to deal decisively with factionalism. “If we live in a divided house, it will not give any confidence to our people and it will harm our election campaign,” he said. Mthembu addressed the briefing along with ANC secretary general Ace Magashule, who recently faced allegations that he was plotting with former president Jacob Zuma and other senior party officials against President Cyril Ramaphosa after they were photographed at the Maharani hotel in Durban. At the weekend, after an extended meeting of the ANC’s National Executive Committee, Magashule had told the media there was resolution that party leaders must be transparent about their movements and no secret meetings should be allowed. “We [the ANC NEC] have agreed that moving forward… we don’t want people to have [secret meetings]. People must have ANC meetings…Provinces must be able to invite one another so that leaders don’t meet in corners,” he told the Sunday Times. “It is better if we discuss organisational issues [in the open]. We should know what is happening. I should know where the president is and the president should know where I am, and if I am going to have a meeting somewhere which might actually be construed as something else, it is better to inform the leadership”. He responded to questions about rumours regarding the future of embattled Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba by saying the minister was not discussed at all but that the president had the prerogative to reshuffle his cabinet as he pleased. Earlier Ramaphosa smiled and chatted as MPs filed into the Old Assembly Chamber at Parliament for the caucus meeting. His presidency has been plagued by suggestions that he is facing an uphill battle from Zuma loyalists with the party, leaving him limited room to manoeuvre on policy a few months before polls in which he will be seeking his first elected mandate. Unusually, the media was invited into the room before the president began his address and allowed to take photographs. The party had earlier indicated that journalists could listen to Ramaphosa’s opening remarks but this was not allowed. (ANA)