JOHANNESBURG, November 9 – Durban based pianist and composer Sibusiso Mash Mashiloane is nominated for the prestigious All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA) in two categories: Best Male Artist in Southern Africa and Best Artiste in African Jazz. The master pianist was nominated for the track “Niza”, taken from his second album titled “Rotha – A Tribute to Mama” that was released in 2017. Niza is a song that was influenced by Mash’ background. “I have listened to and watched a lot of traditional dancers, from iZangoma to amaSokane and the sound and movements are what inspired me to compose Niza,” said Mashiloane. He will travel to Accra in Ghana to attend the awards ceremony, taking place on November 24. Mashiloane said he was excited and proud to be representing South Africa at the AFRIMA Awards. “I recognise myself and my music as embedded in the society that I call home and would not be able to compose the music I do without the influence of my country and the city I live in. This makes me extra proud to be able to represent my culture through music and be recognised for the creation of it.” Mashiloane has a Masters in Jazz Performance and graduated Cum Laude from the University of KwaZulu Natal. Mash is an integral performer and has been well received by audiences while touring the country and beyond to promote his albums: “Amanz’ Olwandle” (2016), “Rotha – A Tribute to Mama” (2017) and ”Closer to Home” (2018). Mash is also a teacher with a focused goal to help grow talent from a firm foundation of African Roots. He lectures at the University of KwaZulu Natal and Durban Music School. His focus is to teach and organize live music performances with his students focusing on South African composers. Mashiloane is currently doing his PHD focusing on South African composers. The AFRIMA, are designed to promote the distinct rich African music worldwide, engaging millions of fans by propelling African music to glorious pinnacles beyond the borders of Africa. Other South Africans artist nominated alongside Mashiloane are Cassper Nyovest, Kwesta, Nasty C and Shane Eagle. (ANA)