PRETORIA, November 23 – Siyabonga Cwele is the new Minister of Home Affairs, and Nomvula Mokonyane has been moved to the department of Environmental Affairs, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Thursday. Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams was appointed, and sworn in as Communications Minister on Thursday. “Minister of Communications will be Ms Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams. I’ve also decided to merge the ministry of communications, and telecommunications and postal services into a single ministry under the new Minister of Telecommunications and Communications, Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams,” Ramaphosa said when he addressed journalists at the Union Buildings in Pretoria. “This move is going to ensure that we have better alignment and coordination of matters that are critical to the future of our economy, particularly in the context of the Fourth Industrial Revolutionary.” Mokonyane replaces Edna Molewa, who died in September after a short illness. Cwele replaces Malusi Gigaba, who resigned earlier this month. Gigaba left Cabinet after a string of scandals, including the legal action between himself and the Oppenheimers over the VVIP terminal. The Gauteng High Court ruled that Gigaba had lied under oath over the matter. The minister was dealt a blow when the Constitutional Court dismissed his application to appeal the high court ruling. The court said the case was unlikely to succeed. This was the second blow for Gigaba after Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane found that Gigaba violated the constitution and the executive ethics code when he told untruths under oath in court. A video of Gigaba performing a sexual act on himself — which he says was stolen when his phone was hacked — was also been widely circulated on social media, drawing strong criticism from opposition parties. According to the Presidency, Gigaba indicated in his letter of resignation that he was stepping aside “for the sake of our country and the movement to which he belongs”. Minister of Transport Dr Blade Nzimande has been acting as Minister of Home Affairs. (ANA)