Doha – The 2022 World Cup in Qatar will be quite an experience for teams and fans in many aspects. Following are some of questions around the November 21-December 18, 2022, tournament: How safe is Qatar? The country is politically stable, there is no terrorism in the kingdom, and the overall crime rate is low. Some locals say people don’t even bother to lock their cars or front doors. But Qatar has never before dealt with a large number of football fans, let alone violent ones. Organizers are working out a security concept together with experts from Britain and France. How hot is it in November and December? The World Cup is normally staged in June and July but summer temperatures in Qatar soar up to 50 degrees Celsius at that time of the year. As a result, the tournament was moved to November and December when temperatures are more moderate, ranging between 25 and 30 Celsius. All eight stadiums also have cooling systems. Those will likely not be needed but the winter months can also see heavy rain at times. Will there be a fanfest like at past World Cups? Qatar plans a fanfest as held in Russia 2018 and Germany 2006 but officials said at the end of the tournament in Russia they would have to revise their original plans in light of the large number of fans attending the fanfests in Russia. Can fans drink alcohol in Qatar? Alcohol is permitted in the country but heavily restricted, with only bars in major hotels serving beer, wine and other alcoholic beverages. There is just one shop in the country that sells alcohol for private consumption, only to foreigners with an authorisation, and in limited quantities. There are plans to sell alcohol during the World Cup in the fan zones but it remains unclear whether it will also be served in the stadiums. Where will the fans be staying? The capital Doha has a wide range of five-star hotels, and cheaper accommodation is under construction. However, organizers want to avoid any form of overcapacity which won’t be used post-World Cup. Therefore fans are also to stay on a maximum six cruise ships; and Bedouin-style tents will also be available on the outskirts of Doha. How about transportation? There are no big distances to cover at the World Cup, with four stadiums in Doha, three others within 20km and the venue in Al Khor furthest from Doha 35km away. All stadiums can be reached by public transport or taxis, and a metro with three lines is being built in Doha. How can women move around in Qatar? Qatari women traditionally wear a head scarf and an abaya, a mostly black robe-style over-garment. Some women also only appear in public with a veil. These rules however don’t apply for foreign women in Qatar, unlike states such as Saudi Arabia. Foreign women can wear their usual clothes, including short skirts and sleeveless tops. What activities does Qatar offer beyond the World Cup? Doha has several attractions such as the renowned Museum of Islamic Art and the popular Souq Waqif marketplace which sells garments, spices as well as hunting falcons, and also has numerous restaurants. Other activities include desert excursions such as a the trip to the Khawr al Udayd nature reserve with its Persian Gulf inlet; and the Al Zubarah ancient fort which is a World Heritage Site. Qatar also wants to expand its number of beaches over the next years.  (dpa)