Solly Makganoto JOHANNESBURG – Cape Town’s Table Mountain may be the biggest star on city’s long list of attractions, but it is the people of the Mother City that make this beautiful landmark really shine. So, it is fitting that the theme for this year’s festive lights switch-on is #BeInspiring – a well-timed call for Capetonians to stand up and help shape our common destiny. The Cape’s biggest free open-air event will take place at the Grand Parade and surrounding streets on Sunday 2 December 2018, from 16:00. Each year, thousands of locals and visitors enjoy the festive atmosphere of this fun outdoor event and, in particular, watching a range of entertainers light up the event with their energy and music – for everyone. 2018 will be no different, with an exciting line-up that includes:  DJ Loyd, Sarah Theron, Yanga, Kunjalo, The Unknown Dance Crew, Robin Pieters featuring Elwira Standili, Emo Adams, YoungstaCPT, Shekhinah and Kwesta. Also joining the line-up will be the winner of the 2018 Festive Lights Switch-on Music Challenge on indi.com (don’t forget to enter). Each act has impacted on the local creative arts scene, and highlights just how every one of us can share in shaping a dynamic South African identity. With numerous accolades, such as ‘Best City in the World,’ ‘One of the Most Innovative Cities in The World’ and most recently being named the ‘World’s Leading Festival and Events Destination,’ Cape Town is seen as the city of inspiration. Now Capetonians are called upon to think about how best to #BeInspiring – how to use your specific talents to transform our world into a prosperous and unified space for all. There’s no better icon to galvanise one into action other than the late Nelson Mandela. This year marks what would have been Madiba’s 100th birthday and, to honour his centenary, South Africans are encouraged to reflect on his life and legacy. This is the time to rekindle our common desire to do good, and to help the less fortunate in practical ways – to be motivated by the legacy Madiba left to future generations. There are many ways of answering the call to ‘find the Madiba in you,’ and the festive lights switch-on is the perfect time to symbolically reinforce this commitment. (ANA) 