JOHANNESBURG, November 21 – Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema pulled no punches on Tuesday outside the state capture commission of inquiry in Johannesburg, launching more attacks against Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan and the media. Malema mounted more ammunition against Gordhan,  accusing him of hating Africans and removing capable black managers at state-owned enterprises. “Look at his video footage [of state capture commission] from yesterday, he [Gordhan] was talking as if he was in his kitchen. He was talking as if he has no regard for the hearing here. Why? Maybe he has some relationship with some people…we know that Pravin meet with judges secretly.” He claimed that the owners of the Tiso Blackstar, which houses the state capture inquiry, were in cahoots with Gordhan “the state capture enabler”. He added that the EFF will appear at the inquiry and expose everyone who lied to the Zondo-led commission. “We have taken a decision to fight Pravin…it’s a war. There will be headlines against EFF, its a war and please do not take chances. Once you take a decision to fight Pravin you must be ready…he is going to fight dirty, there will be casualties, there could even be a loss of life. I am not scared of them, I am ready to confront them one by one.” The leader of the red berets then turned to political journalists, lambasting those at Daily Maverick and Tiso Blackstar. He said the media was biased towards Gordhan. “These journalists are a Ramaphosa defence force. They do everything in their power to discredit anyone who fights Ramaphosa…write down their names, everywhere you see their names attend to them decisively. They are not different from [British company] Bell Potinger that was hired as a machinery for those against the Guptas and Zuma.” Malema took issue with the commission renting facilities belonging to Tiso Blackstar. “The commission is taking place in an expensive building. Why is this so when judges always mention waste of state resources in their [court] judgements? Why didn’t the chairperson of this commission not encourage them to go look for a government-owned hall? This is not what we envisioned when we defended this commission.” (ANA)