CAPE TOWN, September 28 – Commuters in Cape Town are expected to face serious delays on Friday amid reports that train carriages had been set on fire at various points in the wider Cape Town area. Several train carriages were alight at Firgrove station and Cape Town stations, which was closed as a result of the blaze during the afternoon peak. City of Cape Town Fire and Rescue spokesperson, Theo Layne, said the fire at the Cape Town railway station occurred just after two in the afternoon. “City and Fire Rescue responded to the Cape Town Railway station where we are dealing with a train that is on fire. The train is in the railway station area. No injuries have been reported as yet and the cause is yet to be determined,” Layne said. Acting Metrorail spokesperson Zino Mihi confirmed that three trains have burned down at various points in the wider Cape Town area. The incidents happened in Paarl, Firgrove and Cape town station. She said the causes of the fires were still unknown as all three fires were under investigation. “We won’t know for now because everything must still be investigated, we can’t sure now say what happened but we can only say it will still be investigated,” she said. Hundreds of commuters were left stranded and some claimed the delays were not caused by the fires but by poor service from Metrorail as trains were often subject to delays throughout the week. Morne Snyman from Johannesburg,  who has been in Cape Town since January, said travelling with trains has been very difficult for him. He said trains were always too full and mostly delayed. “It’s dangerous, there is no security in the train and they always announcing delays. I have been waiting here for more than two hours now.” Asked if he had any alternative transport to get home, he said: “No I don’t and I live in a shelter, I have to be there at 5:30 pm and if I’m not there the gate gets locked and it’s on the weekend meaning that I must only come back on Monday. If I get locked out, I will live on the street with no food, nothing,” he said. Another commuter, a 60-year-old woman from Retreat said: “The whole situation is insane, it’s so frustrating, I’m tired and you have to be tired at the end of the day by this.” (ANA)