JOHANNESBURG, September 27  – South Africa owes the two Gupta emails whistleblowers, ‘Stan’ and ‘John’, a  ”huge debt” as their explosive information on the controversial family and their associates led to the establishment of the state capture inquiry, led by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, lawyer Brian Currin said on Thursday. The two whistleblowers, who can’t be named and who have since left the country for safety reasons, were the first to possess the Gupta emails that were subsequently handed over to the media for publication last year. ”I believe that the State and the nation owes a huge debt to them because frankly, if it had not been them… I wonder if the state capture commission would be sitting today,” Currin told the commission. “From the outset when I first began engaging with them, they were very fearful…there was a particular dynamic in the country as we all know, and that fear is still with them today.” Stan and John’s story dates back to early 2017, when they requested assistance from an individual on what to do with the hard drive containing Gupta emails. ”They spoke to him confidentially about a hard drive in their possession, which had details on the affairs of the Guptas and their corrupt relationship with senior politicians and managers at state-owned enterprises,” Currin said, adding that his friend also preferred to not be identified. The friend then approached Currin as he did not have the expertise and networks on how to deal with Stan’s information. The three then met in February, with Stan visibly nervous at the meeting, Currin told the Zondo-led inquiry. ”It was clear that Stan had a need to offload, which was not surprising as he had been in possession of the hard drive for many months and undecided on what to do with it. Although Stan could not go through all 300,000 emails, he had read enough of them to be well informed about what appeared to be a corrupt relationship involving the Gupta brothers, [former president Jacob Zuma’s son] Duduzane, and certain Cabinet ministers that he also mentioned by name, and some of the CEO’s of state-owned enterprises,” Currin testified. Stan further told Currin that the data contained emails from then Sahara Computers CEO Ashu Chawla, widely referred to as a Gupta lieutenant. Currin would not reveal how Stan came to be in possession of the information, as this could blow Stan’s cover. Stan had the original hard drive cloned, password protected and the two sets of information were then safely locked away. Currin said Stan wanted to make the information public so that those politicians seen as corrupt could be held accountable. ”We discussed the feasibility of surrendering the information to the law enforcement authorities of the country as this was evidence of serious corruption. But given the situation in the country at the time, we decided that was not a route to follow. We agreed that we could not trust the law enforcement and the political leadership…even at that time, I must emphasize, there were credible people in government agencies that even I could trust, but I could not place my whole trust in those institutions.” It was then agreed to go the media route, and Section27’s Mark Heywood was contacted to help. Heywood then contacted Daily Maverick editor Branko Brkic. However, it had been agreed that Stan, John and their families would have to leave the country before the emails were made public. Publication was planned for September last year, with journalists assuming a foreign location to prevent raids by law enforcement. However, in May the same year, the Sunday Times newspaper broke the story, leaving the two whistleblowers fearing for their lives and that of their loved ones as they were still in the country. Sympathisers then raised funds for the whistleblowers to leave and start their new lives outside South Africa. ”In both Stan and John’s minds, they were certain they will never return to South Africa. They were not confident that the outcome [of releasing Gupta emails] would be a political change that would establish this commission. They both needed sufficient funds so that they can begin to build new careers, family lives outside of South Africa. We had agreed that a period of two years would give them an opportunity to establish themselves [overseas] and see which way the wind blows in South Africa,” said Currin. Brkic and M&G’s AmaBhungane assembled a team of investigative journalists who spent days and nights going through the 300,000 emails that became known as the #GuptaLeaks, and from which a picture of state capture by the Guptas and their associates emerged. Currin said Stan, John and their families left South Africa between June and July last year. The state capture commission of inquiry’s legal team wants the Gupta emails that were leaked to media and subsequently blew the lid on state capture, to be admitted as evidence. The evidence is in the form of data in hard drives, said the commission’s head of legal Paul Pretorius. ”The application is made on behalf of Terence Nombembe, who is the commission’s lead investigator. On 28 of May 2017, The Sunday Times [newspaper] published what became known as the Guptaleaks, or GuptaEmails. In due course, journalists employed by amaBhungane [M & G newspaper] among others, published excerpts and analysis of this data over a period of time. All this data was originally contained in a computer hard drive, the commission now has the hard drive in safe keeping…that is what will be referred to as the original hard drive,” said Pretorius. The hard drive belonged to Gupta-owned Sahara Computers, he said. An expert in Europe made ”a forensic image” of the hard drive. There are two further hard drives which are replicates of the original hard drive, Pretorius said. He added that the original hard drive has been damaged. ”The risk is that if a non-expert handles this hard drive, there will be a risk of permanent irretrievable damage. The original hard drive can only be dealt with by experts. The three hard drives contains information relevant to this commission.” Pretorius said it was up to Sahara Computers whether they wanted to challenge the use of the hard drives as evidence, but that the commission was bound to probe all evidence and was not restricted in its duties. ”Sahara Computers might face a dilemma, as the emails are already in the public through the media. If it contests the use of evidence on grounds of right to confidentiality, it must logically admit the authenticity of the evidence [on the hard drives]. It will be seen as to what approach Sahara Computers chooses to take in due course.” Pretorius told the inquiry that the hard drive landed in the hands of two whistle-blowers who wanted to remain anonymous, and would testify, preferably in July next year. With pseudonyms ‘Stan’ and ‘John’, the two came across the data and contacted lawyer Brian Currin to handle the information as they did not have the expertise and know-how on how to handle such explosive information contained in the emails on the Gupta family and their associates. Currin’s first 18 years of his law career in human rights activism. Now based in Berlin, Germany, he has since 1995 has been working in conflict resolution and mediation internationally. He also worked as counsel to victims at South Africa’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) in the late 1990’s. Pretorius said Stan and John feared for their safety and have left the country. Currin was due to testify on Thursday. (ANA)