DURBAN, December 20 – Western Cape Premier Helen Zille lashed out at advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane on Wednesday after the Public Protector released a report stating that Zille had committed an ethics violation. Mkhwebane found that Zille “appears to have used her position for the benefit of her son and his company, Paper Video”.  Zille said she would be taking the report on review to the high court. KC Dugmore, an African National Congress Western Cape member of the provincial legislature (MPL), lodged the complaint in August 2017. Paper Video – co founded by Zille’s son Paul Maree – is a teaching app that was loaded onto tablets in some schools in the province for free matric revision e-Learning workshops in 2014. Maree was in need of tablets for the app and the provincial education department was in the process of procuring them. Mkhwebane said that Zille “was not directly involved in the procurement of the contract” for the tablets, but that Zille’s own evidence showed that she had communicated with the provincial education department’s senior officials “to intervene in the escalation of the project”. Mkhwebane said that Paper Video was given “preferential treatment”  by the province’s education department.  The manner in which the tablets were procured and delivered was because of Zille’s “instruction based on the request by her son”. The action of the education department amounted to “an unfair advantage” for Paper Video, said Mkhwebane. In a press statement released on Wednesday, Zille said she rejected “out of hand” that there was “any conflict of interest between my public role as Premier, and the fact that I supported my son, a mathematics teacher in Khayelitsha at the time, to borrow equipment of the Western Cape Education Department in order to run free matric preparation workshops in disadvantages schools”. “Insofar as there may have been a perception of a conflict of interest, I fulfilled the requirements of the law in mitigating it. I wish to stress that if I faced the same situation today, as I did then, in 2014, I would do exactly the same because it was the right thing to do,” said Zille. She said her son prepared free matric revision programmes that “he wanted to give, at no charge, during the October school holidays to disadvantaged learners”. The Western Cape Education Department had acquired tablets “precisely for this kind of usage”, said Zille, and her son borrowed 150 tablets and returned them at the end of the holiday. (ANA)