Solly Makganoto JOHANNESBURG, December 7 – The Kaizer Chiefs managerial seat has proved too hot to handle for Giovanni Solinas, who on Friday parted ways with the club after an ‘amicable termination of his contract’. The Italian, whose previous Premiership experience was at Free State Stars and who has no major coaching achievements to his credit, was a somewhat surprise choice to replace Steve Komphela, who had failed to win any silverware in his three seasons at the club. Unlike many of the Premiership teams, Chiefs are not known for knee-jerk reactions when it comes to the hiring and firing of coaches. But as it began to look increasingly like Solinas was out of his depth, and with a growing sense of discontentment amongst the Amakhosi faithful, Solinas was shown the exit door not even five months into his tenure. Not since Kosta Papic in 2007 has a head coach had a shorter stint with the club. “Kaizer Chiefs and coach Giovanni Solinas have mutually agreed to an amicable termination of his contract with immediate effect,” said Chiefs in a statement late on Friday afternoon. Also departing Naturena is assistant coach and former Chiefs centre-back Patrick Mabedi, another who has never really endeared himself to the Glamour Boys supporters. Solinas’ last match in charge was on Wednesday when Amakhosi lost 2-1 to Zimamoto FC of Zanzibar in the Caf Confederation Cup (although the Soweto Giants still advanced to their next leg 5-2 on aggregate). Chiefs are currently seventh on the SA Premiership table after 14 matches, six points behind league leaders and bitter rivals Orlando Pirates, and they have lost three of their last five matches in all competitions. Solinas will depart Amakhosi with very few good memories, having been knocked out of both the MTN8 and Telkom Knockout competitions, as well as losing two Soweto derbies against Pirates, the most recent a Telkom Knockout semifinal encounter. His best day at the office was probably the 4-1 win away over Cape Town City in September. After 22 matches in charge, Solinas’ record stands at eight victories, seven draws and seven defeats, for a win ratio of 36 percent. Of the signings made around the time of the 50-year-old’s stay, its only really Khama Billiat who has excelled. That was hardly a surprise considering the former Player of the Season’s PSL pedigree. Madagascar international Dax Andrianarimanana has barely been given any game-time, while Ugandan Godfrey Walusimbi has been decent but not a revelation at left-back. Lebogang Manyama has made a tentative start and Mario Booysen has battled in a Chiefs rearguard that has looked decidedly shaky. The Italian’s constant mixing up of his starting XI has drawn criticism and suggests he was uncertain of his best starting team. (ANA)