PORT ELIZABETH, December 3  – Battling Chippa United have confirmed that former Black Leopards head coach Joel Masutha will take charge of the team for the immediate future. The Chilli Boys are currently second from bottom on the standings, with Eric Tinkler’s last match in charge having come on Friday night in a 1-0 home defeat to fellow strugglers AmaZulu. That result extended Chippa’s winless run of league form to five matches, their last victory having come two months back, a 1-0 win over Free State Stars on October 3. Masutha, who had guided Black Leopards to promotion last season, was axed by the Limpopo club three weeks ago and replaced by former Gor Mahia (Kenya) coach Dylan Kerr, who inherited a team propping up the foot of the Premiership table. The Eastern Cape outfit released a statement on Sunday night confirming the developments: “Chippa United hereby confirm that it has amicably parted ways with head coach Eric Tinkler. “The Club would like to thank Tinkler for his contribution to the club over the past four months, and wish him the best in his future endeavours. “The club furthermore wishes to confirm Joel Masutha as the interim coach. Masutha is no stranger to the Chippa United family, having served as Roger Sikhakhane’s assistant when the Club was promoted to the PSL in 2014. “Further announcements will be made in due course with regard to other administrative changes within the club.” Tinkler had according to his agent, become disillusioned at having to deal with ‘non-football’ related matters. It will remain to be seen what Masutha’s longer-term role with the Port Elizabeth-based club will be – whether he becomes the assistant to a new head coach, or is perhaps given the position full time, should he inspire some positive results. Tinkler was being assisted by Vincent Kobola; the recently-retired former Cape Town City, MP Black Aces and Moroka Swallows defender still new to the job. The Chilli Boys have eight days until their next match – a league fixture away to Cape Town City. (ANA)