JOHANNESBURG, December 8 – Kaizer Chiefs took many by surprise in announcing former Amakhosi coach Ernst Middendorp as the man to replace the outgoing Giovanni Solinas. Solinas’ exit – an ‘amicable termination of his contract’ – was broadcast on Chiefs’ social media platforms just before 5pm on Friday, and around three hours later, Middendorp’s arrival was announced: “Kaizer Chiefs can confirm the appointment of as the new head coach on a deal for two and a half years. Welcome back to the Amakhosi family,” the club stated. “We were looking for a coach who is experienced and who has an understanding of the club’s footballing culture,” said club supremo Kaizer Motaung. “The targeted assistant coach will be announced soon. Arthur Zwane will assist Middendorp for the upcoming three games.” The German’s previous spell with the Glamour Boys came between July 2005 and March 2007, during which time he won one trophy – the 2006 MTN8 trophy. The 60-year-old last worked in the PSL in Maritzburg United in 2016, when he helped the club stave off relegation on the final day of the season. Middendorp is certainly well acquainted with South African football, having previously been employed by Bloemfontein Celtic, Golden Arrows, Chippa United and Free State Stars, while he’s also coached at Ghana clubs Hearts of Oak and Asante Kotoko, as well as in Iran, China and a host of German sides. Middendorp takes over with three matches left this year for Amakhosi – they play SuperSport in the league next Wednesday, followed by home and away games against Elgeco Plus of Madagascar in the Confederation Cup. Although Middendorp had a fair relationship with the Chiefs fans last time he was in charge, his appointment appears not to have been received with a great deal of enthusiasm this time around, with some supporters having hoped that ex Al Ahly coach Patrice Carteron would be the new man. He’ll certainly be under pressure to deliver; Amakhosi fans are already restless after three trophy-less seasons under Steve Komphela, followed by Solinas’ unsuccessful five month spell during which time he won only eight of 22 matches. The team is in seventh spot on the Premiership standings, six points behind leaders Orlando Pirates. (ANA)