CAPE TOWN, December 11– Former Orlando Pirates and Bafana Bafana marksman Kermit Erasmus could make a return to the SA Premiership in January after an underwhelming three-year stint in Europe. Erasmus is contracted to Portugal Primeira Liga club Vitoria de Setubal, having previously played in France with Stade Rennais and RC Lens, as well as for Swedish second division club Eskilstuna. However, it has been reported that Setubal are willing to allow Erasmus to leave the club, and that he recently returned to South Africa. Erasmus’ time abroad has not yielded much success, and seldom has he racked up more than 10 appearances in a single season over the last three years, during which time he’s scored only four league goals in total. The 28-year-old has not played a single league game for his Portuguese club this term, and having also fallen down the pecking order for the national team, a move back to the PSL could well make sense. Bafana coach Stuart Baxter just earlier this month challenged Erasmus to get more game-time. “I’ve spoken to him. Kermit is one of the ones I was thinking of going to pay a visit to in winter in Europe, but he is not playing enough. I said to Kermit, ‘I want you to be making the first steps and then I will get behind you, I’ll support you and I’ll come see you’. “I don’t think those steps have been enough yet. He is not playing, he was not in the squad. He has to settle in. I say to him ‘when you are settled, I have not forgotten about you. I know where you are. Get some games under your belt and we’ll see where you are’.” The nuggety striker has been linked to Cape Town City, although club boss John Comitis told a local publication this week that he knows nothing about it. In September, the Citizens signed another former overseas-based Bafana Bafana striker, Tokelo Rantie, but unspecified off-the-field issues have meant that Rantie is yet to play for his new club, which could mean the Cape side may just be looking to replace him with Erasmus. The Port Elizabeth-born Erasmus clearly though still has some affection for his old club, Pirates, having Tweeted a message of support for Bucs ahead of their Telkom Knockout final showdown with Baroka FC last Saturday, which they lost on penalties. Should he indeed return to the PSL, Erasmus will join City midfielder Ayanda Patosi, Sundowns pair Andile Jali and Anele Ngcongca, as well as the now-retired Steven Pienaar, and Daylon Claasen, both of Bidvest Wits, as some of the other South Africans who have recently come back from Europe. (ANA)