DURBAN, December 23 – Former president Jacob Zuma took to Twitter on Sunday evening to question a recent High Court ruling that he is responsible for paying his own legal costs in all criminal cases against him. “[M]any of the leaders who were in charge of the apartheid system, some of whom killed my comrades, they were charged, and there are quite a number of them, the state paid for their cases, not just small amounts, very huge amounts, were paid by this very democratic state that we all fought to bring about,” Zuma claimed. “The very same state is saying me, one who fought for this very democratic state, I must pay for myself. So apartheid killers, they must be defended by the state, [but] fighters of the democratic country must pay for themselves,” he said. The High Court in Pretoria ruled earlier in December that Zuma was personally liable for his civil and criminal court costs and that the state attorney should take all necessary steps to recoup the money spent from the public purse in his defence in these matters. Zuma used his brief two-segment video clip to further confirm that he had instructed his legal team to appeal the decision. He also said the decisions taken by courts should be respected “at whatever level”. “What I would like to make clear is that all of us as citizens of this democratic country, we must all respect the judgments by courts, at whatever level. Because these judgments are judgments we should believe are taken by people who have given a thorough thought, listened to evidence, balanced the facts, [and] at times these may be very painful decisions and we might be feeling very hurt, perhaps as I do,” he said. “But whilst the court has taken the decision all of us must listen properly to the case and look at the evidence and compare the evidence perhaps to the judgment; but also, to look at the judgment itself, whether we are consistent in our country in terms of applying the law. “Let us apply our minds and let us respect as well as be consistent with regard to judgments that have been taken for the same cases. You can’t have them contradicting each other. I just thought I should make those comments for all to know how I feel,” said Zuma. (ANA)