JOHANNESBURG, December 14 – A day after a serious court setback that will compel him to shoulder millions of rand in legal fees, a jovial former President Jacob Zuma announced on Friday that he was joining social media platform Twitter and promptly distanced himself from any supposed fundraising efforts on his behalf. Zuma, who was told by the North Gauteng high court on Thursday that he would have to settle legal fees for his criminal and civil cases from his own pocket, made his Twitter debut with a 45 seconds video of himself informing users that he had decided to join in on the national debates in cyberspace.  Good morning Mzansi Thank you for the warm welcome, I look forward to engaging with you. pic.twitter.com/sr1MhSNf0F — Jacob G Zuma (@PresJGZuma) December 14, 2018  “I have decided to move with times to join this important area of conversation because I hear that many people are talking about me, as well as others are calling themselves Zuma in many ways,” said the former president, who was forced to step down and replaced by Cyril Ramaphosa in February.” “I felt it is necessary that I should join in and be part of the conversation and join the people in their discussions. It’s me, former president Jacob Zuma,” he added, before signing out with a smile. Zuma’s Twitter account, @PresJGZuma, which was set up last month according to his profile, had roughly 300 followers until Friday morning when these ballooned to thousands after he posted the video. By 12:55 pm it boasted 27,800 followers. Twitter users appeared to embrace Zuma’s presence in cyberspace despite his widespread villication in real life, amid allegations of corruption and misgoverning the country. Even his arch opponent, leader of the Economic Freedom Fighters Julius Malema tweeted “Welcome Baba” in response to Zuma’s post. Businessman Kenny Kunene also welcomed Zuma on social media: “Welcome Baba Msholozi. We looking forward to your wisdom n truth”, said Kunene. Steve Motale who is the editor-in-chief of Africanews24_7, which broke the news about Zuma’s social media debut also welcomed the former president. “Welcome Baba”, he said Some users urged Twitter to immediately verify Zuma’s account. Zuma has so far not followed anyone, including President Cyril Ramaphosa who has a verified Twitter account. Nor has he followed his ruling African National Congress. In his second tweet, Zuma addressed a user who posted what purported to be the banking details of a fundraising effort to pay for Zuma’s legal fees. “This is false,” Zuma posted.  This is false https://t.co/b7zzCIRbeC — Jacob G Zuma (@PresJGZuma) December 14, 2018  Several other social media posts have mushroomed, bearing Zuma’s face and the ANC’s colours and canvassing for money supposedly on his behalf. 