Solly Makganoto Johannesburg – Kaizer Chiefs chairman Kaizer Motaung has on Friday urged fans in KwaZulu-Natal to stay home on Saturday when Kaizer Chiefs take on Polokwane City in an Absa Premiership fixture. The match scheduled to take place on Saturday, 6 October 2018 at Durban’s Moses Mabhida Stadium will be played behind closed doors. “As we know, the lockout is as a result of the order imposed by the Disciplinary Committee of the PSL. This followed the lamentable events of 21 April 2018 at Moses Mabhida Stadium after the Nedbank Cup match against Free State Stars where fans invaded the pitch and caused damage to property”, said Kaizer Chiefs chairman, Kaizer Motaung in a statement. Kaizer Chiefs were found guilty and ordered to play three league matches in KwaZulu-Natal without spectators. The playing of one match behind closed doors shall be suspended for a period of 24 months, provided that Chiefs are not found guilty of a similar offence. “We hope this sanction is a learning to the fans. Such behaviour goes against the very ethos of what Amakhosi stand for, which is Love & Peace. It besmirches the reputation of the club, sponsors and the millions of well-mannered supporters who make up the Kaizer Chiefs Family; it brings the game of football itself into disrepute. And, on a wider scale, it reflects badly on our people and our country when the footage is accordingly disseminated across the world.” “As promised at the time, changes have been made to the team and results have been coming. Everybody at the club is working to the best of their ability to ensure on the field success and to give joy to the fans.” The club has called its supporters in Durban and surrounding areas to not come anywhere near the stadium to ensure the smooth running of the proceedings. “The support of our fans always has a tremendously positive effect in boosting the confidence of the players, particularly in Durban and the team will most certainly miss this boost.” “It’s important that everybody pulls in the same direction and we therefore implore all our supporters to get behind the team from the comfort of their home for the next two home matches in Durban.” The club has further promised its supporters that there will be more home games in Durban this season in which their people will get to see their favourite team live. “Acts of violence have no place in our society, least of all football. Acts of this nature endanger the lives of innocent people and cannot be tolerated under any circumstances.” “Once again, Kaizer Chiefs does not condone any acts of violence and, please remember, we are a peace-loving group of people.” Kaizer Chiefs sentenced to three matches behind closed doors 