JOHANNESBURG, October 14 – Bafana Bafana ran out comfortable 6-0 winners in a Group E 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier on Saturday afternoon at the FNB Stadium. Coach Stuart Baxter’s side were in command from the outset at a sparsely filled FNB Stadium on a rainy afternoon in Soweto and scored three times in six first-half minutes – an own goal, together with goals from captain Thulani Hlatshwayo and Lebo Mothiba, before Percy Tau, Dino Ndlovu and Teboho Mokoena applied the icing on the cake in the second half. Within the opening minutes, the writing seemed to be on the wall for the visiting team as Aubrey Modiba and Percy Tau headed over the bar early on. Tau then struck the woodwork with a venomous free kick on 12 minutes before Lebo Maboe’s shot was just about dealt with by Seychelles keeper Romeo Barra, who also kept out a Lebo Mothiba header. The deadlock was broken in the 23rd minutes when Hlatshwayo headed the ball across goal, before Seychelles defender Nigel Hoareau got his bearings wrong and nodded into his own net. Within two minutes the lead was doubled when Hlatshwayo powered in a thumping header from a corner kick by his Wits club-mate Sifiso Hlanti. And just another two minutes after that it was 3-0 when Maboe cut through the opposition defence before finding Mothiba just inside the box, the latter turning sharply and burying the ball sublimely in the top corner. The South Africans remained on top for the remainder of the first half and Mothiba and Tau both had chances to add to the scoreline but were denied by Barra. Tau continued to search for a goal after the restart, but Barra made an outstanding point-blank save in the 53rd minute before the former Sundowns man fired an effort over the bar soon after. Barra was single-handedly keeping the scoreline down as he pouched yet another shot from Tau before doing really well to move quickly off his line to stop Mothiba scoring from 12-yards out. Tau finally had his goal though, in the 74th minute, when he combined superbly with Mothiba in the box before skipping around Barra and scoring from a tight angle. Substitute Ndlovu was also to get in on the act when after a neat build-up, he squeezed in a left-footed shot at the near post on 80 minutes, his first for the senior national team. Fellow substitute Mokoena was also to get his first goal for Bafana when he glanced in a 92nd-minute header from a pin-point cross from the left by Hlanti. The result means South Africa have seven points from their opening three AFCON 2019 qualifiers, after a win against Nigeria and a draw with Libya, ahead of their visit to Seychelles on Tuesday. Results of CAF African Cup of Nations qualifiers played on Saturday: In Dakar, Senegal:
Senegal 3 Sudan 0
In Rades, Tunisia:
Tunisia 1 Niger 0
In Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso:
Burkina Faso 3 Botswana 0
In Casablanca, Morocco:
Morocco 1 Comoros 1
In Kinshasa, DRC: Democratic:
Republic of Congo 1 Zimbabwe 2
In Bata, Equatorial Guinea:
Equatorial Guinea 0 Madagascar 1
In Maputo, Mozambique:
Mozambique 1 Namibia 2
In Abuja, Nigeria:
Nigeria 4 Libya 0
In Johannesburg, South Africa:
South Africa 6 Seychelles 0