JOHANNESBURG, October 11 – The SA Football Association (Safa) on Thursday confirmed that Bafana Bafana’s Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifier against Seychelles at FNB Stadium on Saturday will not be broadcast by the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC). Safa released a statement on the matter: “The South African Football Association (Safa) wishes to announce that as matters stand, the upcoming Afcon matches for Bafana Bafana as well as international matches for Banyana Banyana will not be broadcast on any of the SABC platforms. The immediate matches in question are: Bafana Bafana vs Seychelles, Seychelles vs Bafana Bafana as well as the Bafana Bafana vs Nigeria. Safa can confirm that despite it having opened discussions with the SABC as early as October 2017 to negotiate a new deal on similar terms and conditions as the immediate past agreement, the SABC decided to make a discourteous offer to Safa for international football matches to be played in South Africa. Safa rejected this offer outright, and places on record that the offer is so minuscule that it amounts to an effective no offer. It is interesting to note that even the apartheid run SABC of old made a better offer to the Association for their rights in this country. Safa further notes that the SABC recently concluded deals with the EPL (English Premier League) to broadcast British Football in this country, and on 25 September 2018 announced a deal with CSA (Cricket SA), to broadcast the T20 League in Sub Saharan Africa (which will include South Africa). Safa has been repeatedly told by SABC management that it is in no position to conclude a contract /contracts whilst it is in a financial state of disarray. However, it is now patently clear that the SABC actions over the past few weeks in signing deals with EPL and CSA, is calculated towards engineering the financial downfall of Safa, which the Association will not stand for. It is common cause that there is no other sport in South Africa that draws a larger TV audience attendance than Bafana Bafana – in excess of 4 000 000 viewers regularly. It is also regrettable that the nation and the football loving public missed out on a great opportunity to witness Banyana Banyana defend their Cosafa title recently. Safa offered the SABC the matches (including the final) at no cost, whilst negotiations were taking place – but the SABC declined.” (ANA)