PRETORIA, October 2 – The man accused of raping a six-year-old girl at a Dros restaurant on Tuesday told the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court that he does not want to hand over his cellphone to authorities. The prosecution has requested that Magistrate Marley Mokoena, presiding over the matter, order the accused to hand over his cellphone, a move which the accused vehemently opposed through his lawyer. “We request that this court makes an order, telling the accused to hand over his cellphone. If the court makes that order, we will be able to get the phone, which is critical to the ongoing investigations. The grandmother of the accused has indicated that she has the phone,” said the prosecutor Advocate Sanet Jacobson. However, the accused’s attorney, Riaan du Plessis, told the court that his client does not want to “assist” the State in any way. “The accused has a right against self incrimination. I have instructions from the accused that he doesn’t want to help the State in its investigation,” said Du Plessis. The matter was postponed to November 1 for further investigation. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) appealed to media to report on the matter responsibly. NPA spokesperson Advocate Luvuyo Mfaku said: “There were media houses which went to great lengths, interviewing witnesses, going to the crime scene – that is prohibited. You cannot publish the particulars of the charge before an accused person has pleaded to the charge. We appeal to the media that they must be cautious. They have the right to report but they must do so responsibly. “When an accused person has not appeared in court, you cannot publish his name and identity. Once the accused person has appeared in an open court, underline open court, and the accused person is older than the age of 18 then the identity and the name of that accused person can be published.” He said there are specific circumstances when the NPA feels publishing the particulars of an accused may jeopardize a case, and in those instances, an application is made to court to bar the publication of an accused’s name – even after an appearance. “If the identification of the person will compromise the integrity of the investigation, or will endanger the life of the accused person, or will result in the revelation of the complainant – then we have a responsibility as the NPA to make an application in court to the effect that the particulars must not be published,” said Mfaku. “In the instant case, after he had appeared, the media ran with the story and they published his identity. We would have loved for the media to be very circumspect on the publication because you were not even aware whether the identity of the accused is in question. We always say allow the person to appear [in court] more especially in sexual offences as well as cases of extortion.” The accused faces charges of rape, possession of drugs, assault with intent to do bodily harm and intimidation. It is alleged that he followed the little girl from the restaurant’s play area to the toilets where he raped her. The girl’s mother allegedly caught him in the act after she went looking for her child. Member of various South African political parties and civic society groups were at the Pretoria magistrate’s court ahead of the appearance of a 20-year-old man accused of raping a six-year-old girl in the bathroom of the Dros restaurant in Silverton. Metro police secured the area around the court, blocking off one road and instructing motorists to use an alternative route. The caucus spokesperson for the national ruling African National Congress (ANC) in the Tshwane metropolitan area Lesego Makhubela said the party was “deeply concerned” about the rise in crime against women and children. “We have to put an end to this sort of crimes,” Makhubela told journalists. “These crimes against women and children in this country are on the rise. Many other crimes of this nature go unreported – the victims are too scared to come out so we need to liberate them.” “We are hoping that the courts and law enforcement agencies will start acting and taking these things seriously.” Makhubela said ANC secretary general Ace Magashule was also expected in court for the hearing, and that the leadership from the party’s youth wing and women’s league would also attend. A few meters away, members of the main opposition Democratic Alliance (DA), which runs the municipality in a ruling alliance with other parties, gathered at the court entrance, waving placards. DA mayor for Tshwane Solly Msimanga was also present. Close by stood a crowd from the militant Black First Land First movement while members of the Economic Freedom Fighters opposition party also milled around outside the court. Members of the South African Police Service’s public order unit were stationed at the court, and a public order vehicle, popularly known as a “nyala”, was packed close by. Officials from the Tshwane Metro Police Department blocked off Francis Baard street adjacent to the court, instructing motorists to use nearby Sophie de Bruyn street as an alternative. The man accused in the case, who cannot be identifed until he pleads, faces charges of rape, possession of drugs, assault with intent to do bodily harm and intimidation. He allegedly followed the little girl from the restaurant’s play area to the toilets where he raped her. The girl’s mother caught him in the act after she went looking for her child. Political party activists and civil society organisations were expected to protest outside the court on Tuesday over the rape case, which has triggered emotive debate since the news broke and a video showing the aftermath of angry bystanders who assaulted the rape suspect went viral on social media. Several public order police unit members were stationed outside the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court  ahead of an appearance of a 20-year-old man accused of raping a six-year-old girl in the bathroom of the Dros restaurant in Silverton. Before 7 am, a police Nyala was also parked outside. Tshwane Metro Police officers have blocked off Francis Baard Street, adjacent to the court. Motorists were being instructed to continue straight on Sophie de Bruyn Street. The arrested suspect faces charges of rape, possession of drugs, assault with intent to do bodily harm and intimidation. It is alleged that on the day in question last month he followed the little girl from the play area to the toilets where he raped her. The girl’s distraught mother caught the man in the act and raised the alarm. Some of the people who responded assaulted the suspect in the bathroom – others recorded videos with their cellphone. Members of several political parties and civil society organisations are expected to protest outside the court on Tuesday after a video of the bleeding naked man went viral. They are opposing bail. Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga is expected to also attend the court case.  (ANA)