PORT SHEPSTONE October 3  – The church must be united to respond to the growing socio-political and economic problems in South Africa. This is according to the outgoing Moderator (national chairperson) of the Maranatha Reformed Church of Christ (MRCC), Professor Matsobane Manala. Speaking to delegates at the 14th general church assembly in Port Shepstone on the KwaZulu-Natal south coast, Manala said the church as a stakeholder in nation-building has a responsibility to intervene in issues that were not helping to build the nation. “We are faced with many, many challenges that are serious and that are life threatening. There is a growing demand for the church’s intervention in socio-political and economic challenges, such as the growing distrust that we have in our political leadership because of the lack of serving the community,” he said. “We are face with pervert sexual activities, we are faced with women and child abuse, we are faced with murders, we are faced with unemployment. We are faced with drug abuse,” he said, adding that these issues impacted on service delivery. He said no church should be an island in the 21st century South Africa. “Our ecumenical ministry as South African churches can be greatly enriched through embarking on church-community inspired collaborating projects to the benefit of all our people. The MRCC needs to hold hands with other churches in the spirit of Christ’s passionate prayer for unity…” he said. The moderator of Uniting Reformed Church in Southern Africa (URCSA), Professor Leepo Modise, agreed with Manala by saying the church is supposed to identify itself by what it believes in. “The doctrine of trinity should shape a particular vision of a social living…” he said. He said the MRCC and URCSA were the same church. The two churches have started talks on unity and co-operation, agreeing to enter into a memorandum of agreement, the process which is still unfolding. The MRCC national conference focusing on unity, is expected to give the new leadership of the MRCC a mandate to continue talks about unity and co-operation with the URCSA. The MRCC conference is also expected to adopted a health policy in which the church encourages members to know their status as far as HIV/AIDS and other chronic diseases are concerned. The health programme was previously adopted by the Maranatha Reformed Mothers Union, the women’s wing of the church. (ANA)