PRETORIA, October 24 – The Soshanguve Magistrate’s Court, north of Pretoria, on Tuesday released two police officers — charged for the murder of Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) law student Katlego Monareng — on bail. They were released on R2,000 bail each, and the case was postponed to January 25. Emotions ran high at court as hundreds of TUT students pushed back police officers, as they tried to get into the packed courtroom. The large crowd of angry students were later allowed into the room where the two police officers were applying for bail. Some students remained outside the court, protesting. The officers — a captain and a constable–  were arrested by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) on Monday for the August murder of Monareng. The pair’s release angered the student community, with many expressing disappointment with the justice system. “We, as students, are unhappy with the way law is having eyes on the citizens, there is separation between civilians and law enforcement people, so we feel like justice won’t prevail as we witnessed the bail hearing today,” TUT student leader, Thabang Kilo Boima said. “We will protest to department of justice to do the justice and we will invite President Cyril Ramaphosa to explain this “new dawn” so that all parties will be satisfied with the outcome of trial as is starting next year.” Monareng was shot dead at the TUT North Campus in Sohshanguve following scuffles that took place after a Student Representative Council (SRC) voting dispute on August 23. Witnesses to the SRC fracas said members of the South African Police Service (SAPS) shot at students with live ammunition, and one was killed while another was wounded. SizweNtsalubaGobodo Grant Thornton was subsequently appointed by TUT to conduct a full-scale independent forensic investigation into allegations of irregularities in the SRC elections and the resultant protest action at the Soshanguve and Ga-Rankuwa campuses in Pretoria. On Tuesday, Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini said the Ipid had consulted with the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). “The evidence indicates that the case against the accused is strong,” said Dlamini. Welcoming the progress made by Ipid, TUT spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said “good progress” has been made in the full-scale forensic investigation into irregularities during the SRC elections. “The university has received a preliminary report, but challenges such as the closure of the Soshanguve Campuses for four weeks due to disruptions, have hampered the investigation and delayed the release of the final report,” said De Ruyter. It is now anticipated that the investigation will be concluded by the end of this month. (ANA)