PRETORIA, October 24 – Finance minister Tito Mboweni said on Wednesday that government was ready to call on the private sector to increase its role in assisting government with better implementation of its existing infrastructure plans. This as Mboweni announced that public infrastructure expenditure is estimated to be R855.2 billion over the next three years, of which state-owned companies account for R370.2 billion while the remaining R485 billion will come from conditional infrastructure grants. Delivering his maiden medium-term budget policy statement in Parliament, Mboweni said that a central policy objective was to promote an increase in capital investment by the private sector as growth in gross fixed-capital formation had declined significantly in recent years. Mboweni said an increased investment in social and economic infrastructure will be a focus of government’s economic recovery over the medium term. “Too many projects are poorly prepared. Too often, government spends money on infrastructure when it could be better and more effectively done by the private sector,” Mboweni said. “Development finance institutions, multilateral development banks and private banks have committed technical resources to help finance, plan and implement projects. Government will develop a framework to help investors assess potential long-term returns on public infrastructure.” In the current year, R1.7 billion has been added to infrastructure spending, including funding for fast-spending school building programmes, while R3.4 billion has been allocated to drought relief, mostly to upgrade water infrastructure. Interventions to increase the efficiency of existing public infrastructure spending include, among others, addressing weaknesses in infrastructure planning, strengthening accountability and transparency. He said that government will publish a list of projects suitable for private-sector and development finance support, and also publish online expenditure reports of current infrastructure projects. Government has also established a project preparation facility, with funding set aside over the medium term, to deploy technical experts to sponsoring departments to support development of investment-ready projects. Mboweni said government also wanted to stimulate the economy by investing in municipal social infrastructure, such as fixing potholes, broken street lights, flooded roads, and electricity. Last month, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a R400 billion Infrastructure Fund as part of the country’s economic stimulus and recovery is intended to encourage capital investment by the private sector and development finance institutions in public infrastructure. Government is proposing reprioritisation of R32.4 billion over the next three years in a bid to support reforms and interventions in health and education within a constrained fiscal framework, Mboweni said. Of this amount, Mboweni said that R15.9 billion would go towards faster-spending infrastructure programmes, including R3.4 billion for school infrastructure and eradicating pit latrines, clothing and textile incentives, and the Expanded Public Works Programme. Tabling the medium-term budget policy statement, the minister said the remaining R16.5 billion will be allocated to various programmes, including recapitalising the South African Revenue Service (Sars), a minimum wage for community health workers, critical posts and goods and services in health, and streamlining the management of the justice system. Mboweni said the structure of South Africa’s economy was not conducive to high growth or job creation as barriers to entry remained high, making it difficult for small businesses to compete. He said that network industries such as energy, water, transport and telecommunications, needed to be modernised. In addition to these reforms and interventions, the former reserve bank governor announced changes to grant structures amounting to R14.7 billion which will be used to promote the upgrading of informal settlements in partnership with communities. Mboweni said housing subsidies amounting to R1 billion will be centralised to better support middle and lower-income home buyers. In the current year, R1.7 billion has been added to infrastructure spending, including funding for fast-spending school building programmes, and R3.4 billion is allocated to drought relief, mostly to upgrade water infrastructure. The cash-strapped SA National Roads Agency Limited (Sanral) is set to receive a R5.8 billion cash injection from National Treasury. According to the medium-term budget document tabled by Finance Minister Tito Mboweni, Sanral has R38.9 billion in government-guaranteed debt, and the state-owned entity needs help to pay this. “There is a risk that this guarantee might be called because the agency is not generating sufficient cash from the Gauteng Freeway Improvement Project [GIPF] to settle redemptions falling due over the MTEF (next three financial years) period,” the policy statement said. “To prevent this, government has allocated R5.8 billion to Sanral in 2018/19.” Sanral debt has continued to pile up as many road users in Gauteng refuse to pay for using tolled freeways in the province. The National Treasury will not allocate any money to fund shortfalls following the higher-than-expected salary increases following June’s wage deal with public sector workers. Instead, government departments will have to work within their compensation limits, according to the National Treasury’s medium-term budget policy statement (MTBPS) tabled by Finance Minister Tito Mboweni. “This means increasing efficiency and carefully managing overtime and performance incentives,” the National Treasury said. Government budgeted R212.5 billion over the medium term for the increases, but the wage deal took this to R242.7 billion, creating a R30 billion shortfall. “Government’s current wage bill accounts for about 35 percent of consolidated spending,” the National Treasury said. “No additional funding is available over the 2019 MTEF [medium term expenditure framework]. Instead, departments need to fund shortfalls by adjusting within their compensation baselines.” South African Airways (SAA) will get a cash injection of R5 billion to enable the struggling national carrier to settle its debts, National Treasury announced in the adjusted expenditure estimates on Wednesday. “R5 billion is tabled in the Special Appropriation Bill, 2018, for the recapitalisation of the South African Airways SOC Limited to settle due debts.” South African Airways Express, which had its aircraft grounded in May because it was unable to perform proper maintenance, will get R1.249 billion. The mid-term budget statement noted that state-owned enterprises continued to pose a risk to South Africa’s fiscal outlook. “Several entities with acute financial difficulties do not have sufficient cash to repay debt falling due. Ordinarily these institutions would refinance these amounts, but given negative investor sentiment there is a strong possibility that they will have to redeem debt.” SAA received state bailouts last year to prevent it from defaulting on due debt. Then finance minister Malusi Gigaba drew criticism for allocating the airline R3 billion from the State’s National Revenue Fund. This time, National Treasury has opted to legislate the lifeline, which means that the measure will be brought to Parliament and debated. The airline posted a loss of R5.7 billion in May. Its turnaround strategy is premised on recapitalisation by the State to the tune of R13 billion over two years. National Treasury will shift around R34 billion within the budget to fund reforms designed to stimulate economic growth. This was announced in a medium-term budget policy statement tabled in parliament on Wednesday, answering a question that has been the subject of speculation in recent weeks. About half the money, R15.9 billion, will go towards speeding up infrastructure programmes. Of this, R3.4 billion will be given to improving school infrastructure and sanitation, to eradicate pit latrines. The South African Post Office (Sapo) has been allocated a cash injection of R2.9 billion for its recapitalisation in National Treasury’s medium-term budget policy statement. The post office is one of three state-owned entities receiving special appropriations. South African Airways will receive R5 billion and South African Airways Express R1.2 billion. The post office this year took over the payments of social grants after the state’s contract with Cash Payment Services came to an end and beneficiaries were still experiencing technical hitches with the new system. Sapo relies on government guarantees of roughly R4 billion and reported a loss of R807 million in the last financial year. The cost of servicing government debt continues to rise and will exceed estimates forecast in February by several billion rand over the next three years, the National Treasury’s medium-term budget policy statement indicated on Wednesday. “The cost of servicing government debt is expected to exceed 2018 budget estimates by R1 billion in 2018/19, R4.9 billion in 2019/20 and R7.9 billion in 2020/21,” the document, tabled in parliament by Finance Minister Tito Mboweni, said. It attributed the increase in debt service costs to “a larger main budget deficit, currency depreciation and higher interest rates”. Around 15.1 percent of the government’s main budget will be used on debt service costs by 2021/22, increasing from the 13.9 percent forecast for this financial year. National Treasury revised the economic growth forecast for 2018 downwards to 0.7 percent from the 1.3 percent predicted in February. “The economic outlook is weaker than projected in the 2018 budget, although GDP growth is expected to recover gradually to 2.3 percent by 2021 as confidence grows and investment gathers pace,” a medium-term budget policy statement (MTBPS), tabled in parliament by Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said. The downward revision is due to a fall in mining and agriculture production and “a lack of new investment”. The National Treasury said it expected moderate growth in agriculture and mining, combined with improving business and consumer confidence. “Despite lower commodity prices, the resolution of several longstanding policy issues over the past six months is expected to support investment in mining and energy,” it said. “Higher agricultural output is expected as a result of improved rainfall in the Western Cape this year.” The economic stimulus and recovery package announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa was also expected to help bolster economic growth over the next three years.