RUSTENBURG, October 25 – Late iconic motswako maestro, Jabulani Tsambo better-known as Hip Hop Pantsula or HHP – who died on Wednesday, aged 38 — was part of the North West province’s plans for the up-coming Mahika Mahikeng music festival, said culture, arts and traditional affairs member of the executive council (MEC) Ontlametse Mochware. “The news shocked us badly as he was part of the music and arts family in our province,”  she said. “Only last month, he gave a sterling performance at the South African Traditional Music Achievement Awards in Mahikeng. Even sadder for us is that he was part of our plans for the up-coming Mahika Mahikeng cultural music festival. “We will dearly miss him. The young man was one of the pioneers of the music that brought our province international fame – Motswako. He made Setswana rap popular and opened doors for many artists from the North West.’’ In a brief statement, his family confirmed his death and requested privacy. “It is with heavy hearts that we confirm that Jabulani Tsambo, known to his fans as Hip Hop Pantsula, passed away today, Wednesday, 24 October 2018. At the time of his passing he was 38-year-old. He is survived by his wife, his parents, two sisters, his son and nephew. The Tsambo’s request privacy during this time of mourning,” family spokesperson Edgar Makgeledise said. He said once all arrangements have been made, they would communicate it with the public. HPP is known for performing in several languages, mostly in Setswana and used “Maf-town” in his music,  referring to his hometown, Mahikeng in North West. Forum 4 Service Delivery (F4SD) president Mbahare Kekana said: ” HHP motswako rapper has died. Bokone Bophirima (North West) and the country at large has lost dearly. A’ sphelelanga !.” South Africans took to social media to pay their respect to the iconic motswako maestro. “Rest in Peace our Setswana Fashionista (HHP). U made our language be heard worldwide babe! U made S.A citizens proud,” said Kealeboga Shane Maleshane. (ANA)