JOHANNESBURG, October 3 – Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene has testified that contrary to assertions by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), he did reply to their letter sent in May this year, in which he denied allegations that he was the gateway for the Guptas to access Public Investment Corporation (PIC) funding. Testifying in the state capture inquiry on Wednesday, the minister said in the letter, EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu requested him to respond to a number of questions regarding his relationship with the controversial family. ”They [EFF]  insinuated that I facilitated access to the PIC for the Guptas while I was deputy minister of finance. I confirmed that I had met some members of the Gupta family during government functions, and that both in my roles at PIC and as finance minister, I have been approached by different companies requiring my help in securing finance, especially from the PIC. I said that in all instances these individuals, with no exception to companies, were informed that they should approach the PIC directly through its formal channels,” Nene said. He added that the EFF statement that he has never replied to their letter was incorrect, because he responded on June 12 this year. Nene was chairman of PIC and its non executive director in his capacity as deputy minister of finance between 2009 and 2014. Later in September, Shivambu sent Parliamentary questions to Nene on the same subject, to which he responded, denying allegations of working with the Guptas. He added that all investments approved by PIC are made in accordance with its mandate. ”I deny that I acted improperly regarding the PIC investments when I was deputy minister or finance minister. I deny that I promoted funding from the PIC for any business involving my son, as the EFF has also alleged [recently] on social media.” Nene said the EFF alleged on social media that his son benefited from PIC funding, but he did not elaborate more on what the nature of funding was as alleged against his son. The PIC, he added, has been requested to provide any evidence about such a transaction. Furthermore, it has been alleged that his wife received funds through a foreign account. Nene said he rejects the allegation ”with the contempt it deserves” as his wife does not have a foreign held bank account and neither has she received funding from anyone. ”I find the timing of these allegations interesting and the manner in which they were raised on social media and not through appropriate channels. That these came just a few days before my appearance before the commission is very interesting and strange,” Nene said. Evidence leader Paul Pretorious said the inquiry will investigate the EFF accusations against Nene. Nene admitted meeting with the controversial Gupta family between 2009 and 2014, but denied working with them or facilitating deals for their benefit when he was chairman of the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) and later deputy finance minister. He told the inquiry that he mostly met the family at government functions during former president Jacob Zuma’s tenure. His first encounter with Ajay Gupta was in 2009 when he was deputy finance minister. “I met Ajay at a number of occasions at government events. They [Guptas] were at many of government events at that time…the first [meeting] was dinner after the State-of-the-nation address in 2009. I was deputy minister at the time, and was then invited to [Gupta-owned] Sahara Computers…they marketed themselves as good corporate citizens who employed young people. Ajay kept telling me that they do not do business with government,” Nene told the commission. He said the Saxonwold meetings were mostly a ”PR exercise” and nothing untoward came out of them. He was further invited “for tea” at Saxonwold to discuss the economy. “They also requested me to contribute to a magazine called The Thinker [brainchild of former minister] by Essop Pahad, I was also briefed on the launch of The New Age [newspaper]… they said media was hostile to government and the ANC and needed an alternative view.” Nene said he got suspicious when the Estina diary project investigation came up, adding that the PR exercise might have been an effort by the Guptas to “conceal something”. “The only time I got suspicious was around 2013 when the Treasury was investigating one of their companies about a diary farm in the Free State. That is when I got suspicious about their saying that they do not do business with the State…that contradicted what they said to me,” said Nene. The minister said the only direct request to him by the Guptas was when he was asked to intervene in a dispute with head of Independent Media Iqbal Surve. Ajay told him at one of the meetings that they had an agreement with Surve to go into business together, financed by the PIC. “Ajay told me there was now a court case against him [Surve] as he is refusing to honour his commitment to them, and that his [Surve] explanation was that his agreement with PIC did not accommodate the Guptas,” he said. Nene confirmed that Surve received a substantial loan from the PIC. “Did Mr Gupta want a part of that funding,” asked evidence leader Paul Pretorius. “Well, they had an agreement that they would be part of that but Mr Surve was reneging on that agreement. So, the [Gupta] inquiry [to me] was because he says he cannot do it anymore because of the PIC agreement, is that correct? I said because it was an agreement with PIC, that would not be a matter concerning PIC and requiring its intervention. My further request to Ajay was that if he has further queries, he must raise them directly with the PIC.” Nene further testified about the Spiderweb project report, seen as a smear campaign against Treasury officials. It surfaced in 2015 and claimed that Treasury leaders were handled by ”white monopoly capital”. According to the report, Nene was handled by Absa head Maria Ramos, referred to in the report as the “Queen of Leaves”. Treasury then released a media statement rebuking the allegations Earlier, inquiry chairman, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, repeated his call to the public to contact the commission if they have information or evidence on state capture. This came after Pretorius told the commission about a media report this week detailing Nene’s interactions with the controversial family. Pretorius said no one has come forward to substantiate the media reports. Zondo appealed to government leaders, including those in the National Assembly and public servants in general to assist the inquiry. ”I have been making this call…and want to repeat that there must be a number of ministers in the present and previous cabinets who must have some knowledge of things that happened. I am saying, please come out to help the commission…there must be a lot of senior officials in government, in the NA, NCOP, who know things that fall within the terms of reference of this commission.” ”We ask them to come forward. I also just want everyone to know that just because we have been inviting them to come forward, doesn’t mean that because they do not come forward, this commission will not get to know what they know. Commission will investigate, and there will be appreciate the importance of this work for the country.” Nene has told the state capture commission of inquiry that he was fired by former president Jacob Zuma because he refused to ”toe the line” and do the bidding of the controversial Gupta family and their associates. ”I do believe I was removed from office for my refusal to toe the line regarding certain projects. In hindsight, it seemed those projects might have benefited the Gupta family and their associates, for example, the nuclear deal and SA Airways strategy. I am also basing this on former deputy minister [Mcebisi Jonas] statement, who said he was offered my post as I refused to tow the line,” Nene testified on Wednesday. State capture inquiry’s evidence leader Advocate Paul Pretorius asked Nene: ”Are you referring to financial benefits?”  to which Nene replied: ”I believe so, yes.” Nene became finance minister from 25 May 2014 until 9 December 2015.  He was fired by Zuma and replaced briefly by Des Van Rooyen. Van Rooyen was removed within a few days and the now Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba took over as finance minister.  Nene was reappointed South Africa’s finance minister in February after Zuma was deposed and replaced by Cyril Ramaphosa. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has accused Nene of ”playing victim” after he was fired in 2015. The party claimed the minister had been working closely with the Guptas when he was PIC chairman and then deputy minister of finance, and demanded that he resign after testifying at the commission. Treasury officials were at the hearing to lend support to Nene. They included his deputy Mondli Gungubele, treasury director-general  Dondo Mogajane, head of tax and financial sector policy Ismail Momoniat and former Treasury official Michael Sachs.  African National Congress (ANC) head of presidency  Zizi Kodwa was also present.  (ANA)