PORT ELIZABETH, October 9 – Nigerian Pastor Timothy Omotoso refused to plead to the 63 charges against him as his trial finally got underway in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Tuesday. Omotoso’s two alleged accomplices were also instructed by their defence not to plead to the charges against them. The trial which was meant to kick off earlier this week, has been marred by several delays. Earlier on Tuesday the court’s recording device was out of order and preceding that, the defence had brought two applications prior to the commencement of the criminal trial. Just after 3pm on Tuesday, the televangelist refused to plead to a string of charges, which include racketeering, rape, sexual assault, human trafficking and trafficking in persons. Alleged henchwomen, Lusanda Sulani and Zukiswa Sitho, also refused to plead to charges which include rape, sexual assault, racketeering and trafficking in persons. Judge Mandela Makaula entered a plea of not guilty on behalf of the trio. In respect of the rape and human trafficking charges, which allegedly occurred in Israel and Nigeria, a plea of no jurisdiction was entered. As State Prosecutor Nceba Ntelwa read out the various charges, the court heard that a 13-year-old girl and 14-year-old boy were among the alleged victims. The State also indicated that the televangelist used his Jesus Dominion International Church as a means to manage an enterprise which involved racketeering. Defence lawyer, Peter Daubermann, who is representing the trio, said that all three of his clients maintained that they were not properly informed of the charges against them. Daubermann said the trio were not in a position to make plea explanations. “However badly they want to, they are unable to make a plea explanation because there is not sufficient information of the charges,” he said. The State is expected to call its first witness on Wednesday. The 58-year-old televangelist allegedly trafficked more than 30 girls and women who were from various branches of his church to a house in Umhlanga, KwaZulu-Natal, where he allegedly sexually exploited them. The two women are accused of recruiting girls from all over the country for the purposes of sexual exploitation. The trial continues. Port Elizabeth police in the Eastern Cape confirmed that two off duty police constables “misrepresented” themselves in an attempt to attend the human trafficking case involving a Nigerian pastor. Drama unfolded on Tuesday when a woman was seen arguing with the investigating officer, detective Peter Plaatjies. Plaatjies instructed police members to remove the woman who kicked up a dramatic fuss screaming in the court foyer. Court proceedings were not yet in session at the time. The woman was then forcibly removed and refused to speak to the media after the fracas with police. Police spokesperson, Colonel Priscilla Naidu said it was alleged that two constables arrived at court on Tuesday and produced SAPS appointment certificates. Naidu said the two women informed court security they were ‘protocol observers’ but security became suspicious and informed the investigating officer. Naidu also said there was no role of ‘protocol observers’ within SAPS. “They were  allowed into the court however the security reported the matter to the investigating officer who approached the women and questioned them,” said Naidu. Naidu said that police would investigate the matter internally. One of the police constables was later seen being taken away by members from the Jesus Dominion International Church. The Nigerian pastor faces a total of 63 charges which include human trafficking, rape, sexual assault racketeering and conspiracy in aiding another person to commit sexual assault. Two women, his alleged accomplices, are accused of recruiting girls from all over the country for purposes of sexual exploitation. The trio have yet to plead to the charges against them. The 58-year-old televangelist allegedly trafficked more than 30 girls and women who were from various branches of his church to a house in Umhlanga, KwaZulu-Natal, where he allegedly sexually exploited them. He also faces charges of fraud and for being in the country illegally. The pastor was arrested on April 20, last year, by the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, at the Port Elizabeth Airport. According to the State, some of the alleged victims are as young as 13-years-old. Drama unfolded at the Port Elizabeth High Court on Tuesday on the second day of the trial involving a Nigerian pastor charged with human trafficking. In the court foyer, a woman was seen arguing with Hawks detective Peter Plaatjies and refused to leave the building. It is understood that she is a congregant from the Jesus Dominion International Church and falsely represented herself as the pastor’s security detail. The woman resisted, kicked and shouted before she was forcibly removed by police. She refused to speak to the media following the scuffle. Many congregants gathered outside the building and were unable to attend proceedings as there was no space in courtroom A. The Nigerian pastor faces a total of 63 charges which include human trafficking, rape, sexual assault racketeering and conspiracy in aiding another person to commit sexual assault. His co-accused, two women, are accused of recruiting girls from all over the country for purposes of sexual exploitation. The trio have yet to plead to the charges against them. The 58-year-old televangelist allegedly trafficked more than 30 girls and women who were from various branches of his church to a house in Umhlanga, KwaZulu-Natal, where he allegedly sexually exploited them. He also faces charges of fraud and for being in the country illegally. The pastor was arrested on April 20, last year, by the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, known as the Hawks, at the Port Elizabeth Airport. According to the State, some of the alleged victims are as young as 13-years-old. (ANA)