JOHANNESBURG, October 4  – For the second time this season, it was a clean sweep at the Absa Premiership monthly awards for Kaizer Chiefs as Giovanni Solinas and Khama Billiat took home the Coach and Player of the Month awards for September. After facing a difficult start as the new Amakhosi coach, which saw his side go four matches without a league win in August, things finally fell into place for the Soweto giants in September. Solinas kicked off the month by changing the club’s fortunes with an impressive 4-1 away win against Cape Town City. That first Absa Premiership win was to be the start of a great month for the club as it was followed by a 2-0 victory over Free State Stars in Bethlehem before defeating AmaZulu 2-0 to close off the victorious month of September. The Italian-born coach was rewarded for guiding his side to these three consecutive wins in an unbeaten month for the Amakhosi. Solinas’ side only conceded once and scored eight goals during the period. The panel of judges, made up of sporting media, analysts and former players, applauded Solinas for having inspired his side during the FIFA international break, improving his defence and maintaining winning performances despite his rotation policy. Other coaches who were mentioned for the good performances during the month included Kaitano Tembo of SuperSport United, Polokwane City’s Josef Vukusic and Orlando Pirates’ Miluton Sredojevic. Meanwhile, Billiat, who recently joined Kaizer Chiefs from Mamelodi Sundowns, has been rewarded for his two goals and two assists in the three matches the club played in September. Billiat scored a double against Cape Town City and created a goal each in the wins over Free State Stars and AmaZulu. The judges felt Billiat hugely impressed with his performances over the last month and was a key player in Chiefs’ exciting attacking display. Orlando Pirates’ midfielder Vincent Pule and Jabulani Maluleke, the Polokwane City captain, were also praised for their individual brilliance and contributions to their respective club’s fortunes during the month. Judging panel: Marks Maponyane (convenor), Baba Mthethwa, Thabiso Tema, Brian Mofokeng, Lebo Motsoeli. (ANA)