DURBAN,  October 16 – Economic Freedom Fighters’ student activist Bonginkosi Khanyile, found guilty of several criminal acts during violent student protests two years ago,  will only know his sentence next year. Khanyile was supposed to be sentenced in the Durban Regional Court on Tuesday for crimes he committed during the KwaZulu-Natal #FeesMustFall protests in 2016, but the state needs to finalise its pre-sentence report. Sentence will handed down on 28 January 2019. The courtroom was packed with supporters for Khanyile, with many in the gallery dressed in EFF regalia. Some South African Students Congress (SASCO) members were also in attendance. Speaking to members of the media outside the courtroom, Khanyile said his studies had been affected by the protracted case: “How can you study when you know that you might go to jail?” he asked. Khanyile said he could not sleep on Monday night while waiting to hear his fate, but when he arrived at court he was told that the state was not ready for sentencing. He also said that he would apply for a pardon once he had been sentenced. In August, Khanyile pleaded guilty to public violence, possession of a dangerous weapon – a slingshot – and two counts of failure to comply with police orders. “At all times I was aware that my aforesaid actions were unlawful and punishable by law,” he said in his admission.  The state did not lead evidence on other counts. Khanyile was arrested in September 2016 during running battles between police and Durban University of Technology students that took place during the height of the protests. He was initially charged with incitement to commit public violence, illegal gathering, possession of dangerous weapons (a slingshot), obstructing traffic, causing a nuisance on public roads and possession of explosives. At Khanyile’s August appearance, magistrate Siphiwe Hlophe recounted how Khanyile was captured on video throwing stones at police by a public order policing videographer. “His actions caused havoc,” said the magistrate. Khanyile made national headlines when his bail application made it all the way to the Constitutional Court after being denied at the lower courts. After close on six months in prison, the Constitutional Court granted him bail of R250.  (ANA)