JOHANNESBURG, October 16 – It was only after the failed VBS Mutual Bank’s R1.89 billion looting scandal that Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) deputy president Floyd Shivambu paid attention to his brother Brian’s work for VBS majority shareholder, Vele Investments. On Tuesday, Shivambu again distanced himself from allegations that he received R10 million from his brother Brian, after the latter was paid R16 million by the bank for doing consultancy work for Vele Investments. “I got to pay detailed attention to the contractual relationship my younger brother had with Vele Investments, only after this issue came out that he benefited from VBS. I saw in the contract that he was providing consulting and advisory services on the non-banking assets of Vele. Vele own other companies apart from a holding in VBS, and all those assets were acquired during the process of advisory services that are said to have taken place. There was nothing to disclose about that,” Shivambu said at a press conference. He said the EFF interference on the VBS matter was to push the SA Reserve Bank to take over curatorship of the bank, recapitalise it and make sure clients’ deposits were safe. It was not meant to protect the VBS shareholders, he said. “There has never been a R10 million that came into my account. The misinformation is deliberate and part of the propaganda machinery…its pure insanity. Its madness…be a patriot and go to the police station and report with evidence that Floyd received R10 million from VBS…there can never be such. We never took money from VBS and anyone who thinks so is mad.” He added that his bank would have asked him about the R10 million because regulations places the responsibility on banks to query unexplained monies being deposited into accounts. Party leader Julius Malema said the deputy president showed the party his bank statements from 2014, and they could not find the cash payments. He asked the Daily Maverick journalist to provide proof that such a payment was made to his deputy. “I can tell you that in the monies that exchanged hands between Floyd and Brian, and all his relatives, it doesn’t come anywhere close to R10m. All I want you to do is give me documents, all I want is you to list payments…that he received this amount on this day. We will show that to him [Floyd] and he will have to come and explain….and he has a right to refuse to do so, because the honours is on us to prove. In the calculations we made, we never received the millions and that is what troubles me..where does the amount of R10m come from?” he asked. Shivambu said his brother, who is an EFF member, was 30-years-old. In a press release last week, Brian said his company Sgameka Projects provided “professional consulting services” to Vele in 2017. He said his company did not have a business relationship with VBS, nor did it receive money from the bank. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has thrown its weight behind its deputy president Floyd Shivambu, whose brother, Brian, allegedly received R16 million from the collapsed VBS Mutual Bank. ”The deputy president has taken the EFF leadership into his confidence and we have no reason to not believe him. We note that several persons mentioned in the [VBS] report are challenging it, any pronouncement on validity of the report is premature,” party leader Julius Malema told reporters in Johannesburg. Neither Shivambu nor the EFF were mentioned in the report, he added. Media reports alleged that R10 million of the R16 million VBS cash was directed to Brian’s brother Floyd, while the EFF benefited to the tune of R1.3 million.  The brothers have separately denied receiving cash emanating from the bank. When asked why the EFF was taking its deputy president’s word and not investigating him, Malema said there was no basis to investigate. ”Investigation based on what?…give us something [to work with]. In the absence of prima facie evidence, there cannot be such. And I am not afraid of Floyd…if Floyd stole money from the poor, I will face him.” Malema said Brian Shivambu is an EFF member and one of his duties for the party was to sell EFF merchandise. An independent report commissioned by the SA Reserve Bank to probe the collapse of the mutual bank found that there was “wide scale looting and pillaging of the monies placed on deposit at VBS”. The monies were clients’ life savings and deposits, including millions of rands deposited by municipalities. The report, titled “The Great Bank Heist” showed that at least 50 people “gratuitously” received nearly R2 billion from the bank over a three-year period starting in March 2015. (ANA)