CAPE TOWN, October 19 – The momentum of the Currie Cup competition – proudly brought to you by DirectAxis Financial Services and Nashua – will change significantly on Saturday as the teams make the switch from qualifying mode to final mode as they take to the field in the semi-finals.
The Cell C Sharks will host the Xerox Golden Lions in Durban at 14h30 while defending champions and log-leaders, DHL Western Province will meet the Vodacom Blue Bulls in Cape Town at 17h00.
A victory for DHL Western Province will guarantee them a home final at DHL Newlands on Saturday, 27 October, however, should they suffer a defeat, the winner of the Cell C Sharks and Xerox Golden Lions match will host the final.
At Jonsson Kings Park, the Cell C Sharks will be determined to build on their 37-21 victory against the Xerox Golden Lions in a repeat of this match in the pool stages, but they will be wary of underestimating the visitors.
The Durbanites have suffered only one defeat at home against their Gauteng rivals since 2008, and that was in 2015, which should bolster their confidence going into the match.
Interestingly, the Xerox Golden Lions have scored 46 more points than the KwaZulu-Natalians in the pool stages, but they conceded 80 more.
The Xerox Golden Lions made only two changes to their team with Pieter Jansen and Aphiwe Dyanti earning starts.
The Cell C Sharks also made minimal changes to their side with Thomas du Toit and Daniel du Preez starting after being forced to withdraw last week, while Marius Louw and Robert du Preez are back at centre and flyhalf respectively, which sees Curwin Bosch move to fullback.
In Cape Town, every point will count for DHL Western Province who will have their sights set on earning their first home final since 2014 to give themselves the best possible chance to defend their title when they host the Vodacom Blue Bulls in their second successive match.
The Capetonians powered their way to a comprehensive 34-7 victory in the first half last week, which proved to be the final score after the match was cut short due to heavy rain and lighting.
They will, however, be wary of writing off the Vodacom Blue Bulls, who had to dig deep to earn a semi-final berth and who will have a point to prove after their disappointing display last week.
DHL Western Province have been dominant against their Pretoria rivals in the last four seasons, with nine victories in 12 outings, and although anything can happen in a semi-final, the Pretorians will have their work cut out to create an upset as the hosts have been the best side on attack and defence this season.
Dillyn Leyds and Juarno Agustus have recovered from injury and will start for DHL Western Province, while Dan Kriel and Bongi Mbonambi are back from a rest. Kriel will partner up with Ruhan Nel in the midfield, while Damian Willemse has been named at flyhalf.
The Vodacom Blue Bulls moved Trevor Nyakane to the loosehead position and named Dayan van der Westhuizen as tighthead in changes up front. In the backs, Dylan Sage will make a first start for his new team and Duncan Matthews was named at wing.
Fans at DHL Newlands and Jonsson Kings Park will be able to find and tag themselves on an interactive 360o FANCAM image, compliments of DirectAxis Financial Services, which can be shared on social media by registering on directaxis.fancam.com.
Currie Cup semifinal fixtures, teams:
Saturday:
Cell C Sharks v Xerox Golden Lions
Referee: Marius van der Westhuizen
Assistant Referees: AJ Jacobs and Jaco Pretorius
TMO: Christie du Preez
Cell C Sharks: Curwin Bosch, Sbu Nkosi, Jeremy Ward, Marius Louw, Lwazi Mvovo, Robert du Preez, Louis Schreuder (capt), Daniel du Preez, Tyler Paul, Jacques Vermeulen, Hyron Andrews, Gideon Koegelenberg, Thomas du Toit, Akker van der Merwe, Juan Schoeman. Replacements: Chiliboy Ralepelle, Mzamo Majola, Coenie Oosthuizen, Luke Stringer, Jean-Luc du Preez, Cameron Wright, Leolin Zas, Aphelele Fassi
Xerox Golden Lions: Sylvian Mahuza, Courtnall Skosan, Lionel Mapoe, Howard Mnisi, Aphiwe Dyantyi, Elton Jantjies, Nic Groom (capt), Warren Whiteley, Pikkie de Villiers, James Venter, Marvin Orie, Rhyno Herbst, Jacobie Adriaanse, Pieter Jansen, Sti Sithole. Replacements: Tiaan van der Merwe, Danie Mienie, Chergin Fillies, Vincent Tshituka, Hacjivah Dayimani, Dillon Smit, Shaun Reynolds, Wandisile Simelane
DHL Western Province v Vodacom Blue Bulls
Referee: Egon Seconds
Assistant Referees: Rasta Rasivhenge and Paul Mente
TMO: Willie Vos
DHL Western Province: Dillyn Leyds, Sergeal Petersen, Ruhan Nel, Dan Kriel, SP Marais, Damian Willemse, Herschel Jantjies, Juarno Augustus, Ernst van Rhyn, Kobus van Dyk, JD Schickerling, Chris van Zyl (capt), Wilco Louw, Bongi Mbonambi, Ali Vermaak. Replacements: Scarra Ntubeni, Caylib Oosthuizen, Michael Kumbirai, Salmaan Moerat, Jaco Coetzee, Paul de Wet, Josh Stander, JJ Engelbrecht
Vodacom Blue Bulls: Divan Rossouw, Duncan Matthews, Dylan Sage, Johnny Kotze, Jade Stighling, Manie Libbok, Ivan van Zyl, Hanro Liebenberg, Marco van Staden, Ruan Steenkamp, Eli Snyman, Hendré Stassen, Dayan van der Westhuizen, Jaco Visagie, Trevor Nyakane. Replacements: Edgar Marutlulle, Frans van Wyk, Conrad van Vuuren, Ruan Nortje, Nic de Jager, Embrose Papier, Tinus de Beer, Franco Naude. (ANA)