PORT ELIZABETH, October 22  – Political heavyweights and a well known South African musician were among those attending rape accused Timothy Omotoso’s criminal trial in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Monday. Minister in the Presidency responsible for Women, Bathabile Dlamini, Minister of Communications Nomvula Mokonyane and Deputy Minister of Water and Sanitation, Pamella Tshwete attended proceedings along with the ANCWL to support “rape survivors” in the case. Protests continued outside the Port Elizabeth High Court with two opposing groups. Metro police and SAPS continued to monitor the tense situation. At one point, an Omotoso supporter, seen with a group of congregants from Jesus Dominion International (JDI), was forcibly removed from the building. South African music sensation Simphiwe Dana was also at court to show her support for survivors. Dana said that she had been following the case on social media and was touched and honoured to be at court in a show of support for victims of sexual abuse. Meanwhile, the trial came to a halt on Monday as the second state witness has yet to be called to the stand. Defence attorney Peter Daubermann told the court that Omotoso’s wife Taiwo, and alleged henchwomen Lusanda Sulani and Zukiswa Sitho were being threatened and intimidated when attending court. Sulani and Sitho had both failed to pitch for court as proceedings got underway in the morning. Daubermann said they “feared for their lives.” “My clients, his supporters and me have been threatened and mobbed. It’s not safe for us to come to court..the police haven’t taken steps,” Daubermann said that last week when he left court he was followed by an “angry mob” who demanded that he drop the case. Daubermann said he had been vilified in the media to the extent of being called a “rapist” himself. He said he was heavily criticized for his cross-examination of state witness Cheryl Zondi, but stressed that justice must be allowed to take its course. Daubermann said he one hundred percent supported women’s rights and supported anyone who chose to support the complainants in the Omotoso trial. Zondi, 22, earlier testified that she had been sexually groomed, raped and sexually assaulted by Omotoso when she was just 14-years-old. Daubermann said it was up to the court to decide where the truth lay. He asked for his clients safety to be assured and implored the judge to give the accused a fair trial. “This amounts to a direct attack on the judicial system in this country. Most surprisingly neither the general Council of the Bar or judiciary has condemned the attack on me,” Daubermann said. Daubermann said that a very dangerous precedent was being set and there was no possibility of the accused receiving a fair trial. Judge Mandela Makaula said that both the defence and state should meet in his chambers to discuss a way forward. Meanwhile, Sulani and Sitho have since both arrived at court with Omotoso’s wife. The Nigerian pastor faces 63 main charges and 34 alternative counts which include human trafficking, rape, sexual assault, racketeering and conspiracy in aiding another person to commit sexual assault. His two alleged henchwomen, Lusanda Sulani and Zukiswa Sitho are accused of recruiting girls from all over the country for purposes of sexual exploitation. The 58-year-old televangelist allegedly trafficked more than 30 girls and women who were from various branches of his church to a house in Umhlanga, KwaZulu-Natal, where he allegedly sexually exploited them. (ANA)