JOHANNESBURG, October 4 – They arrived on Thursday – three days later than expected – but hard-pressed residents of Westbury were all the same glad to see the police Tactical Response Team (TRT) being deployed in their township besmirched by gang shootings, drug dealers and other crimes. After days of running battles with police, residents were rejoicing at the local Recreation Centre stadium. They danced to music from the police band in contrast to days before when they threw stones at the men and women in blue – not surprisingly they retaliated with rubber bullets. Protests erupted last week on Friday after Westbury resident Heather Petersen, 45, was shot dead during a gang shootout. A 10-year-old girl was also hurt in the shooting and was hospitalised. Angry residents, who took to the streets in numbers, accused the police of colluding with drug dealers and criminals in Westbury. On Tuesday Police Minister Bheki Cele visited the area and promised to immediately deploy a TRT unit – also known as Amabharete – to help keep the streets of Westbury safe. As days went by, residents were increasingly becoming despondent. But on Thursday Cele restored some of their faith in law enforcement when he introduced the TRT in their distinct blue uniforms. “We are bringing these officers to defend [the community] and arrest criminals,” said Cele amid cheers. He was addressing residents who had gathered at the local stadium. Speaking to the police Cele bellowed: “Please protect the community arrest rapists, drug dealers, murderers, and thieves … officers you go and knock and get us all the wanted criminals, we’ve got a top 20 list now and will be given to you, if you knock and no one opens please kick the door”. The police minister said 143 special team members have been deployed in Westbury. They include the National Intervention Unit and the metro police. “You will see 133 because you not going to sure 10 of them, they will live amongst you so that they will collect information to tell us who are the criminals and we will act on that. There shall be no space of criminals in this community anymore,” declared Cele. He added that if gangsters want war they are welcome to face the TRT team, which he said has been given the “real stuff” and not “rubber bullets”. (ANA)