JOHANNESBURG, October 25 – SuperSport will move into high gear on Saturday for one of the biggest days of the domestic sports year with both the Soweto derby and the Currie Cup final taking place.
A total of 25 cameras, including one aboard a helicopter, will broadcast the action from FNB Stadium with 20 cameras strategically placed at Newlands for the WP-Sharks decider. Another will be on board a helicopter for aerial shots.
The Kaizer Chiefs-Orlando Pirates match kicks off at 3.30pm (SS4) and the rugby starts at 4pm (SS1).
Going all-in, SuperSport will have 66 technical crew members on hand to facilitate the soccer broadcast. At Newlands, a further 48 production staffers will be involved in delivering the Currie Cup final to viewers.
The build-up to the derby starts at 2pm, although it’s a far earlier day for SA rugby fans with three finals being broadcast, the first of them (SA Under-19 final) from 11am, followed by the Under-21 final at 1pm and then the late-afternoon climax.
For the derby, Robert Marawa will anchor the SuperSport studio, together with Dikgang Mabalane and Matthew Booth. Popular Phumlani Msibi and Shaun Bartlett will be pitch-side.
High-flying Lindiwe Dube will call the action from inside the chopper with Julia Stuart getting the lowdown from VIPs and fans.
Three-language commentary will be provided by Mark Gleeson and Stanton Fredericks (English), plus Zama Masondo (isiZulu) and Baba Mthethwa (SeSotho).
Given the mass interest in both fixtures, there will be a live television crossing between the Currie Cup final and the derby to give viewers a broader sense of the excitement surrounding the two major games.
Rugby, too, will roll out its heavyweight broadcasters, among them anchors Xola Ntshinga and Motshidisi Mohono.
On-field guests will be the Springbok quintet of Odwa Ndungane, Victor Matfield, Breyton Paulse, Juan de Jongh and Joel Stransky.
English commentary will feature Matthew Pearce, Stransky and Nkumane, Hennie Koortzen and Kobus Wiese will provide Afrikaans commentary and Lonwabo Mtimka and Mandisa Williams will commentate in isiXhosa. (ANA)