PARLIAMENT, October 9 – Ronald Steyn, a senior official in the department of home affairs, on Tuesday told MPs that he was questioned about the progress of the visa applications of the Gupta family before he was transferred from the High Commission in New Delhi two years early, without explanation. Steyn was moved to Munich midway through his term abroad to make way for Gideon Christians, who is among those alleged to have helped to speed up the naturalisation of the Indian-born Gupta family, who stand accused of milking South Africa’s state-owned enterprises of billions of rands through shady deals. “I was in Delhi for two years and one month,” Steyn told Parliament’s portfolio committee on home affairs investigating the scandal on speedy naturalisation for the family. “I don’t know the reason I was sent to Munich.” He said he did not ask for the motive for moving him from the high commission in early September 2015 but confirmed that during his time there the high commissioner had inquired about progress in the processing of visa applications by the family. Steyn also confirmed that periodically he received phone calls and emails from Aswu Chawla, a key business associate of the Gupta brothers. He was checking how far along visa applications for staff from Sahara Computers were. The chairman of the home affairs committee, Paul Chauke, noted that though Steyn was informed of this transfer and contacted by the chief director for foreign office coordination Nomzamo Mnyaka, deployments at his senior level were the decision of the minister in general. Chauke went on to point out that in the main applications from Chawla did not meet with the requirements. Therefore, officials were pressed to speed up applications that were not in order, he added. Earlier, Major Kobese, a former director in the home affair’s foreign office, said there were problems between Steyn and colleagues. But Steyn said he was never made aware of relational problems while he was at the high commission. The inquiry was due to hear testimony from Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba later on Tuesday. (ANA)