JOHANNESBURG, October 23 – Freelance Journalist for Sunday Independent, Edwin Naidu, has won the Mandy Rossouw Award for Accountability. Naidu was announced as the winner of the prestigious award at a ceremony held during Media Freedom week at JoziHub on Monday night. The Mandy Rossouw Award for Accountability is awarded to the best story idea in which the powerful are held to account on issues specifically related to children. William Bird, director of Media Monitoring Africa (MMA), also announced the three finalists for the 2018 Isu Elihle Awards, which include SABC journalists Krivani Pillay and Jamaine Krige, and Mallick Mnela from Zodiak Broadcasting station in Malawi. Each of the finalists, including the winner of the Mandy Rossouw Award will receive training on ethical reporting on children. They will also each be awarded R10,000 financial support to research, produce and publish their stories. These stories will be adjudicated in November 2018 and the winners announced then. “We honour Mandy not just because she was an excellent journalist but because she used it to hold the powerful accountable. As we reflect on the sometimes dire state of journalism we remember our heroes like Mandy Rossouw, who inspires and gives hope for media on our continent,” Bird said. “Yet again we have seen how if we give journalists a chance to think and offer fresh ideas they excel!  They show the real potential not just for our journalism but how they can offer stories that will make a real difference in the lives of children.” The Isu Elihle Awards celebrates journalists from East and Southern Africa who create original child-centred news story ideas. The winning story for the Isu Elihle Awards will receive a cash prize of R25,000, with second and third receiving R15,000 and R10,000 respectively. The Mandy Rossouw Award winner will receive a cash prize of up to R25,000. Rossouw was a respected South African political journalist who worked as the international correspondent for the Media24 group, politics reporter for the City Press and was also a reporter for Eyewitness News. She is credited for investigating and breaking the story of multi-million rand security upgrades at former President Jacob Zuma’s Nkandla homestead.  (ANA)