JOHANNESBURG, October 17 – The International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) on Tuesday announced it had delayed its implementation of testosterone suppression in female athletes from November 1 to March next year. This comes after the IAAF was challenged by Athletics SA (ASA) and SA 800m gold medallist Caster Semenya over the legality of the ruling. The IAAF classifies athletes like Semenya as ‘athletes with differences of sex development’ (DSD), and had intended to implement testosterone-lowering medication for such athletes from November 1. “The IAAF remains very confident of the legal, scientific, and ethical bases for the regulations, and therefore fully expects the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) to reject these challenges,” said the IAAF in a statement. “However, the IAAF also understands that all affected athletes need certainty on the point as soon as possible. “Therefore, in exchange for Ms Semenya and the ASA agreeing to an expedited timetable, the IAAF has agreed not to enforce the Regulations against any athlete unless and until they are upheld in the CAS award, which is expected on or before 26 March 2019.” “Prolonging the uncertainty for athletes looking to compete in these distances next year and beyond is unfair and so we have reached a compromise with the claimants.” “We have agreed not to enforce the regulations against any athlete until the contested regulations are upheld.  In exchange, they have agreed not to prolong the process.  All athletes need this situation resolved as soon as possible,” said IAAF president Sebastian Coe. IAAF Health & Science Department Director, Stéphane Bermon said:  “We recognise that this five-month shift in the timetable from a November to a late March start date could result in affected athletes having to sit out the bulk of the outdoor season leading up to the IAAF World Championships, including international competitions such as the Diamond League which begin in May 2019. “The original November 1 start date was designed specifically to avoid this.  Because of this, although the Regulations are formally stayed pending the outcome of the CAS proceeding, the IAAF Health and Science Department stands ready to support athletes and receive biological results from individual athletes with DSDs wishing to start their six-month suppression period at any time from today.” (ANA)