CAPE TOWN, October 25 – The Currie Cup will reach a thrilling conclusion in Cape Town on Saturday when the unbeaten Western Province will set their sights on a fairy-tale finish to the season against a Sharks side determined to avenge defeat in last year’s final.
The match, which marks the ninth time the sides battle it out for the title since 1984, will be the last of three finals played at Newlands on Saturday. Kick-off in the final of the Currie Cup Premier Division will be at 4pm. The day’s action will kick off at 11am with the SA Rugby Under-19 Championship final between the Blue Bulls and Sharks, which will be followed by the SA Rugby Under-21 Championship final between the Blue Bulls and Golden Lions at 1pm.
Western Province, who will be hunting back-to-back titles, will enter the match on a seven-match winning streak, although their 100-minute extravaganza in the semifinal against the Blue Bulls will undoubtedly serve as a stark reminder that anything can happen in finals rugby. The Sharks, meanwhile, have suffered only one defeat this season, and that was a 50-28 loss against Western Province in the Mother City.
This, combined with the fresh memories of their home defeat in last year’s Currie Cup final, in which they allowed a 21-15 halftime lead to slip out of their hands, will fuel the Durbanites’ determination to topple the hosts this weekend.
The teams have met in three Currie Cup finals at Newlands since 1984, and the hosts won two of those, although they went down 33-19 in the last one in 2013.
The Capetonians have been superior on attack and defence this season, but only marginally, with 40 tries scored and 145 points conceded to 32 tries scored and 157 points conceded by the Sharks, which will set the scene for an entertaining clash.
The Springbok duo of Sikhumbuzo Notshe (No 8) and Jano Vermaak (scrumhalf) will both return from injury for the final and will start the match for WP.
The only other change sees Josh Stander come into the starting XV at flyhalf, with Damian Willemse shifting to inside centre. Dan Kriel will join Hersel Jantjies on the bench, while Juarno Augustus and Paul de Wet drop out of the match-23.
The Sharks team show just two changes to the team that defeated the Golden Lions last week. Tyler Paul shifts into Jacques Vermeulen’s position on the side of the scum, allowing an opening for Jean-Luc du Preez to gain his first start for the Sharks in this year’s competition. In the other change, Aphelele Fassi replaces Lwazi Mvovo, who was concussed in last week’s match.
The battle between the place-kickers, Western Province wing SP Marais, and Sharks flyhalf Robert du Preez, is expected to be decisive. Marais is the top point-scorer in the competition with 121 points, which includes 15 penalty goals and 28 conversions, but Du Preez has also been effective with the boot kicking six penalty goals and 20 conversions for a total of 58 points.
From the eight previous finals between these two coastal giants, WP have won five (1984, 2000, 2001, 2012 and 2017), while the Sharks have been victorious three times (1995, 2010 and 2013). (ANA)