JOHANNESBURG, October 30 – South African wheelchair tennis aces, Kgothatso Montjane, Lucas Sithole and upcoming star Donald Ramphadi jet off to Europe this week for two prestigious international tournaments.
The trio will begin their excursion at the Bath Indoor tournament, an International Tennis Federation level 1 event in Bath, England, from November 6 to 10.
Rising quad player Ramphadi, ranked 29th, who has caused upsets taking down top-ranked players including Japanese world No 4 Sugeno Koji last month in the semifinal round of the Sardinia Open, will make his debut in Bath.
Ramphadi said with the Bath event being his last tournament for the year, he’s hoping to reach the semifinal round to solidify his position in the rankings.
Following the Bath event, Montjane and Sithole will move on to the UNIQLO Wheelchair Doubles Masters to be staged from  November 14 to 18 in Bemmel, Netherlands.
The ITF’s season-ending doubles championship for the world’s top wheelchair doubles players will be hosted for the second year in a row by the Dutch Tennis Federation.
The top eight men’s doubles pairings, top six women’s doubles pairings and the top four quad doubles pairings to enter based on combined doubles rankings on the Wheelchair Tennis Rankings of October 1 make up the field for the ITF’s year-end doubles championship.
Two-time Grand Slam champion and quad world No 6 Sithole, will take part in the event for the second time, after finishing third with Heath Davidson from Australia in 2017. The 32-year-old will join forces with American Greg Hasterok this year.
It will be Sithole and Hasterok’s first partnership since the 2016 British Open, where they reached the semifinal round.
The country’s leading women’s player Montjane will also be looking to battle it out with partner Charlotte Famin from France in their second consecutive year of partnership in the season-ending doubles championship.
The pair finished in fourth position in 2017 and will be hoping for better results this year. (ANA)