CAPE TOWN, October 2  – The city of Cape Town’s Transport and Urban Development Authority (TDA) will spend over R2 billion on new housing over the next three financial years, with over R500 million budgeted for 2018/19, Mayor Patricia de Lille said on Tuesday. In a statement, De Lille said the 2018/19 budget was allocated to 36 housing developments which were either in the planning phase, already underway, or in the process of being finalised. “In Area South, we have upcoming housing projects in Grassy Park, Dido Valley, Brown’s Farm, Strandfontein, Vrygrond, Retreat, Ottery, Pelican Park and Philippi, among others,” De Lille said. “For Area North, the budget has been allocated for housing projects in Atlantis, Fisantekraal, Scottsdene, Hangberg, Durbanville, Salt River and Langa.” She said under her leadership, Cape Town had committed to undoing the wrongs of discriminatory apartheid rule, including ensuring that “residents who were previously denied property ownership can reclaim that right”. De Lille said the city had ramped up the handover of title deeds and had issued over 16,000 to beneficiaries since 2011. “In Area South, we handed out over 789 historical title deeds in the 2017/18 financial year while we issued 730 deeds in Area North for the same period,” she said. “We have also made good progress in connecting more residents to the electricity grid. In Area South alone, we have ensured that 10,166 families have electricity for the first time. The City has also connected 3,039 families to the grid in Area North. “For the current financial year, we have set aside R113 million to ensure that more families across the city have access to electricity,” De Lille added. She further said in the current budget, the City had several exciting projects to be delivered across the city, which included R720 million for the Table Mountain Group aquifer project, R75 million for the Cape Flats Wastewater treatment works refurbishment and R33 million for the incremental development area and upgrade of informal settlement project in Sweet Homes, Philippi, among other projects. “There is still a lot to do to bring greater parity of services and this is why we established the area-based service delivery model to make sure the services of all 10 City departments are deployed in each area across the city. “I am working until my last day in office to build a more inclusive Cape Town that provides opportunities to all residents, that we redress the imbalances of our past and give all Capetonians access to equal opportunities,” De Lille who steps down at the end of October. According to De Lille, in 2011, at her first inauguration as executive mayor, she told residents that she was determined to “work tirelessly, day and night, to live up to this vote of confidence to ensure that we do justice to the hopes, dreams and aspirations of all the citizens of our great city”. “I said, now that you have lent us your vote, you must hold us to account. As the outgoing mayor, I am here to account for the progress we have made. I became the Mayor to serve people and not be served,” she added. (ANA)