DURBAN, October 26 – The Verulam Family Court on Thursday heard that the National Prosecuting Authority has finalised its case for denying bail to 11 men accused of being part of an alleged Durban terrorist cell with links to global terror group the Islamic State (ISIS). Lead prosecutor Adele Barnard read into the record, for the second day this week, the affidavit compiled by police investigator officer Warrant Officer Khwezi Chonco, which outlined the State’s case. The bail proceeding was postponed to Tuesday after the State filed a supplementary affidavit in which it amended some aspects of its original affidavit. The filing of the supplementary affidavit led to various defence teams requesting further time to review the new documentation before submitting their replying affidavits. Magistrate Irfan Khalil gave them until Monday midday to file. The accused are facing schedule six offences including murder, attempted murder, extortion, arson as well as charges under South African anti-terror legislation known as the Protection of Constitutional Democracy against Terrorism and Related Activities Act. According to Chonco’s affidavit, accused number one, Farhad Hoomer, is alleged to have provided the getaway vehicle from the deadly attack on the town’s Imam Hussain mosque in May. The mosque attack left one man dead and two injured. Hoomer, represented by advocate Jimmy Howse, was arrested at his Fulham Road home in Reservoir Hills, a Durban suburb, on 5 October. Several other accused were allegedly staying at the house with Hoomer. It is also alleged that at a house Hoomer owns on nearby Nugget Road, police found eight ISIS flags. Inside the property, police say they found the vehicle – owned by Hoomer – that was used by the mosque attackers as well as an “incendiary device” similar to those planted at various Woolworths stores across the city, the mosque and other local businesses earlier this year. Barnard read into the record that the police also found in Hoomer’s possession cell-phones and sim cards linked to an extortion racket. Hoomer is also accused of kidnapping. On one of Hoomer’s electronic devices police found a “MujGuide”, a manual providing details on how to carry out terrorist attacks and assemble a bomb. The second accused is Ahmed Haffejee. One of the more salacious details of his arrest is that he belonged to a WhatsApp group called “Jundullah”, which translates to “Soldiers of God”. “He is also linked to Ahmed [Bazooka] Mussa – a co-accused on the Del Vechhio matter,” reads the affidavit. This is in reference to Cape Town botanists Rodney and Rachel Saunders, who were allegedly kidnapped and killed by Sayefudeen Del Vecchio and his wife, Fatima Patel, together with Mussa, in February. This matter is also being held at the Verulam court and is set to continue next week. The remaining accused are Tanzanian Thabit Mwenda; Mohamad Akbar, who was identified as being part of the attack on the mosque; Tanzanian Mohammed Siedth; Congolese asylum seeker Amani Mayan; Tanzanian Abubakari Ali; Congolese asylum seeker Abasi Juma;  Muhammed Adil Sobruin, who was identified as being part of the mosque attack and  Ndikumana Shabani Umande and Iddy Omar. The twelfth accused is Goolam Haffejee, who is related to Ahmed and is currently out on R100,000 bail. (ANA)